---
layout: post
title: Spoiler-Free Fire Emblem Awakening Review
author: bsinky
description: A spoiler-free review of Fire Emblem Awakening for the Nintendo 3DS.
date: 2019-02-16
modified: 2019-02-12
categories: [Review]
tags: [Review,Fire Emblem,3DS,Strategy,RPG,Spoiler-Free]
image:
    feature: feature-fire-emblem-awakening-review.jpg
---

I like to consider myself a Fire Emblem fan. I've played every title to have an
official English release up until Awakening[^1]. I intend to play every English
localized title in the series, and in an ideal world, play Japanese exclusive
titles via fan translations at some point. Simply put, I *love* what Fire Emblem
does as a series.

That brings us to the big question. How does a long-time fan of the Fire Emblem
series feel about Fire Emblem: Awakening, a title that shook up the series in a
number of big ways?

<!--more-->

Before we get any further, I will be keeping this review spoiler-free in regards
to the game's story. I will divulge details about many of the game mechanics and
changes, but no plot spoilers.

## What is Fire Emblem?

![](https://i.imgur.com/7N8wx5n.png)
{: .image-right }

Fire Emblem is a series of strategy RPGs from Japanese developer Intelligent
Systems, who have had close ties to Nintendo for many years. Gameplay consists
of turn-based battles on a grid-based map, where the player is tasked with
controlling their units in order to defeat or defend against AI-controlled enemy
units. The series has RPG elements such as level ups, stat-driven battles, and
storytelling, and has always had a focus on medieval fantasy settings. Another
staple of Fire Emblem gameplay has been permanent death, or permadeath, where a
unit who loses all of their health in battle is lost forever.

## The Big Changes

How *does* Awakening differ from its predecessors? The obvious change that comes
to mind, and the change I've probably seen criticized most, is its handling of
permadeath. In all prior Fire Emblem games, when a unit loses all of its health
in Fire Emblem, it's gone for good. For many units, the character actually dies
on the battlefield in game, though there are those who are too important to the
plot and are just wounded to the point of being unable to fight ever again.

[![](https://i.imgur.com/wJZUuEvm.png)](https://i.imgur.com/wJZUuEv.png)
{: .image-right }

Fire Emblem: Awakening has permadeath. But only if you want it to. For the first
time in the series[^2], the player is given a choice between two modes when
beginning a new game: Classic, and Casual. Classic means you play with
permadeath, in *classic* Fire Emblem fashion. Casual is a new mode wherein a
unit who falls in battle is only unusable for the remainder of that battle,
after which they return, ready to fight again another day.

The introduction of Casual Mode does not bother me *at all* though. In fact, I'd
say it's actually a really smart move for the series. Allowing the player to
choose between Classic or Casual modes is a way to make the game more accessible
to new players or those who play video games less seriously, while still
allowing the game to played with permadeath just as long-time fans know and
love. I played through the game in Classic mode, on Normal difficulty, because
that's how I'm used to playing Fire Emblem. The fact that Casual mode exists did
not detract from my experience at all, since I could pick how I wanted to play.
Putting a choice like that in the player's hands just gives them more freedom to
tailor their experience to fit their preferences, and I don't think that's ever
a bad thing.

[![](https://i.imgur.com/mv4NXS7m.png)](https://i.imgur.com/mv4NXS7.png)
{: .image-right }

Speaking of freedom to tailor the gameplay experience, Awakening also introduced
the ability to customize an avatar[^3]. The player can customize the gender,
appearance, and voice of their avatar unit at the beginning of the game.
Character creation with the Avatar system was something I didn't know Awakening
had going in, and character customization is something I always enjoy in games,
so I was pleasantly surprised. The player also gets to pick a stat for their
Avatar that will have enhanced growth during level ups, and a stat that will
have decreased growth. The Avatar system is a welcome addition, and I think even
players who detest character creation can get through it pretty quickly by
accepting the default appearance and voice.

## The Breakdown

Having addressed the biggest changes in Fire Emblem: Awakening compared to its
predecessors, we can now move on to the heart of this review: analyzing the game
piece by piece.

### Story (No spoilers!)

![](https://i.imgur.com/ProzCpr.png)
{: .image-right }

Awakening's story is solid, and makes excellent use of pre-rendered cutscenes to
highlight the biggest points. These are incredibly cool and memorable moments.
Of course, the biggest drawback of the character creation mechanic is that the
Avatar can't appear in any of the pre-rendered cutscenes, since it just wouldn't
be technically feasible. The game gets around this by having some of the
pre-rendered cutscenes happen from the Avatar's point of view, cleverly getting
around the issue, and *technically* having the Avatar "appear" in the
pre-rendered cutscene.

On several occasions, the game presents a choice the player needs to make, which
was surprising to me, and made certain moments feel more real. These are used
sparingly, but when they popped up I was really drawn in and weighed each
option carefully.

[![](https://i.imgur.com/Nci1lrsm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/Nci1lrs.jpg)
{: .image-right }

For setting, the game takes place in the same universe as the original Fire
Emblem game, which was originally Japan only until it was remade into Fire
Emblem: Shadow Dragon on the Nintendo DS. This world is where Marth, a Fire
Emblem character Smash Bros. fans will recognize, originates from. Awakening
takes place 2,000 years after Marth's time, so he's long gone. However, he's a
legend due to his heroics in Shadow Dragon. Anyone who's played Shadow Dragon or
the original Fire Emblem game will probably enjoy when the characters make
references to Marth or his companions. The references are nice inclusions for
long-time fans, but I think Marth's name is recognizable enough due to Smash
Bros. that even players new to Fire Emblem will enjoy hearing him referenced.

The game's cast is also full of enjoyable characters, but to avoid spoilers I
won't be covering any of them here, save to say there are some great
personalities, and a diverse range of them to boot. Chances are everyone will
find some character in the cast that resonates with them.

That's all I really want to say to avoid spoiling anything. The classic Fire
Emblem story elements are present, warring nations, etc.. It doesn't disappoint!

### Map/Level Design

[![](https://i.imgur.com/MgYCPvHm.png)](https://i.imgur.com/MgYCPvH.png)
{: .image-right }

Level design was very solid. There wasn't a single map where I found myself
thinking it was a chore to get through. Even the maps I struggled on were
enjoyable, the struggle wasn't due to the map employing a tactic that felt cheap
or annoying, but rather due to shortcomings in my strategy. Several maps had
unique quirks to add a bit of welcome variety as well. For instance, one map had
a "spooky" feel, and walls would disappear and reappear on alternating turns.
This lead to the layout map changing significantly between turns, and meant that
enemies who were out of reach one turn might be within reach the next.

I realized one thing only after finishing the game: there are no fog of war maps
in Awakening. Fog of war maps have been present in majority of previous Fire
Emblem titles, at least the ones that saw English releases. Moving your units
around a map where you can't see more than a few tiles around you livened up the
maps that utilized the fog of war effect in that past. Looking back, it is a
little weird that Awakening never utilized it, as I think it could have helped
add further variety to the levels.

The victory conditions for a map in Awakening always boiled down to 2 things:
either Rout, where you win by defeating all enemies, or Defeat Commander, where
you intuitively win by defeating a special enemy unit. Prior Fire Emblem games
such as Path of Radiance mixed up the victory conditions now and then, by having
conditions like "Defend" where you had to survive a certain number of turns as
enemies advanced upon you, or some variant called either Arrive or Seize, where
you simply need to get a unit to a specific tile on the map. Admittedly, some of
the conditions could be rather tedious, so perhaps it is smart for Awakening to
stick to conditions that involve defeating enemies. But, I think a Defend map or
2 wouldn't have been amiss in Awakening, just to add a little more variety to
the victory conditions.

### Visuals

This game looks good, for the 3DS. The part most players will probably spend the
most time looking at, the tactical overview during battle, looks great and does
everything it should. It's easy to see at a glance a unit's health, and having
their stats and inventory displayed on the bottom screen is quite convenient.
The pixel art for units is also quite nice, differentiating different classes of
units is possible even though the art is small.

Battle animations likewise look good, though I admit I didn't spend all that
long watching them. I skipped the majority of them most of the time and disabled
them during enemy turns as well. They tend to get repetitive after you've seen
them enough times, which can be said of any Fire Emblem title, but luckily
Awakening, like many of its predecessors, allows you to control if and when
battle animations play.

[![](https://i.imgur.com/pfrRemAm.png)](https://i.imgur.com/pfrRemA.png)
{: .image-right }

One unusual thing Awakening does is with the proportions used for the 3D
character models. During cutscenes, when visiting the Barracks, and during
battle animations, the player sees 3D models of the characters. However, their
legs are very short, while their arms reach down to their knees! I imagine this
was done to work around the small resolution the 3DS has, adjusting proportions
so that more detail could be seen. It's not off-putting, in my opinion, since it
works in game and looks fine, but it is worth noting. Compare this to the
earlier 3D Fire Emblem games of the GameCube and Wii, where the proportions of
the 3D character models were much closer to that of a real human's, since they
had a significantly higher resolution and screen size to work with.

### Music/Audio

The music in this game was good. I can't say I really remember any individual
tracks though, but that maybe be because it's on a handheld device, I often had
the sound kind of low as I played. Had I worn headphones for more of the
experience, the music may have stuck with me more. That said, I do remember
having one of the songs that played frequently during levels stuck in my head
for quite a while during my playthrough!

One thing about the audio in Awakening I loved were the little voice clips that
played during dialogue sequences. It's not a full voice over, and often times
what the character voices doesn't match what the text reads. Awakening is
definitely not the only game to do this; it's something I *really* enjoyed in
Persona 5 as well. When I realized Awakening had the mini-voice-clips, I was
pretty excited! It's a great way to make a character and a conversation seem
more real, and more engaging.

### Gameplay

The tactical combat of Fire Emblem remains just as engrossing and fun as ever.
Being on a portable system is also a huge benefit, as you can start playing at
any time, and if you need to stop you can either create a save mid-battle to
resume later, or put your 3DS to sleep. Besides the addicting combat, there are
a number of other gameplay features at work here, some of which relate closely
back to combat and make it even more exciting.

#### Pair Up

The new "Pair Up" system worked very well in the context of this game.
Essentially, if you Pair Up two units, they will occupy one space on the map,
with one unit being the primary unit to both deliver and receive attacks, and
the other manning a supporting role, increasing the primary unit's stats,
occasionally delivering followup attacks in battle or defending the primary unit
from all damage. Needless to say, this opens up a plethora of doors for
strategy. One of my favorite pairings in the early game was that of a Knight and
a Dark Mage. The Dark Mage has reasonable defense on its own compared to normal
Mages, but when combined with the Knight their defense was increased to allow
them to weather far more attacks than previously possible, making the pair much
more flexible than either unit would be alone.

As a long time Fire Emblem player, I tended to think of Pair Up as a replacement
for the old "Carry" or "Rescue" system. In some prior titles, a unit could Carry
another unit, and they'd occupy a single tile, as in Pair Ups. However, Carrying
a unit incurred stat *penalties* for the primary unit, as opposed to all the
boons Pairing Up grants. Carry still had a number of uses though, as you could
but it had to be used carefully, lest you leave the Carrier open to attack while
their stats are lowered. With the Pair Up mechanic on the other hand, there was
rarely a reason *not* to use it. Both systems are good, but I can't say I really
miss Carry when Awakening has Pair Up to offer, and additionally Pairing Up two
units was a great way to build Supports between two units, and Supports played
perhaps a larger role in Awakening than in any previous Fire Emblem title.

#### Supports, Marriage, and Children

Supports return in Awakening. The Support system provides bonuses when
characters are near each other, or Paired Up, once 2 characters have established
a Support Level. Support Level can be ranked up from C to S, and must be built
up over time primarily by Pairing Up units and positioning them next to each
other when attacking.

Where Awakening breaks new ground for the series is the introduction of Marriage
and Children between 2 characters. Once two characters reach S Support Level,
they get married. This Support Level is special in that a character can only
have 1 S rank Support. Once a character establishes the S rank Support and
marries, an optional Paralogue mission will be unlocked, so long as the player
has at least reached a certain point in the main story. Completing this
Paralogue mission will unlock a new unit who is the child of the newly married
units, and inherits some of the abilities of the parent.

Children add a lot to the game, actually. There's a feeling of customization,
since depending on who you pair up a child can have different parents from
playthrough to playthrough. Furthermore, a child has unique Support
conversations with their parents, so seeing all the Support conversations would
require many playthroughs to give the child every possible parent! The stat
growth of the child units is also *slightly* affected by who their parents are,
leading to many possibilities to customize the units through careful planning,
to those so inclined, although I've read that their stats aren't affected all
that much overall. Of course, since the Paralogue chapters to acquire child
units are optional, all of this can be ignored as well by those who are
uninterested or offended by the feature.

There's entire articles out there solely focused on what child characters
inherit from their parents, so I'll leave it to those to fully dive into all the
possibilities. Suffice to say, there are *plenty* of options.

#### Barracks

[![](https://i.imgur.com/TzpSiqjm.png)](https://i.imgur.com/TzpSiqj.png)
{: .image-right }

Awakening introduced a new feature called "Barracks", in which you can visit the
army Barracks between battles and view the available events. New Events become
available after most levels. Events themselves are mostly randomly generated.
They range from temporary stat boosts for a character, to short conversations
between characters that give them points toward ranking up their Support Level
or extra experience points.

The Barracks is okay, the boosts it provides are helpful. The conversations that
occur within aren't particularly interesting since they are dynamically
generated. They seem to be a replacement of sorts for Base conversations that
were present between levels in Path of Radiance and Radiant Dawn. The Base
conversations were more interesting, as they are often written to shed further
insight into the current goings on of the plot, whereas the Barracks
conversations are always more general and have less depth.

#### World Map

Like Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones, Awakening features a world map. Between
levels, you can freely move around the map, purchasing equipment from shops at
locations you have visited in prior chapters. You can also fight enemies that
appear at locations in order to get extra experience, items, or gold, depending
on what the enemies drop. I enjoyed this feature in Sacred Stones, and I like it
even more in Awakening as the map is larger. The optional Paralogue missions
also appear on the world map, to be challenged if the player wishes.

## Final Thoughts

Overall, Awakening is just an *extremely* fun experience, everything just comes
together superbly to form a very enjoyable game. It's not a perfect game, but
the critiques I've leveraged at it are minor at best.

[![](https://i.imgur.com/PHDGwn7m.png)](https://i.imgur.com/PHDGwn7.png)
{: .image-right }

There's probably many things I haven't mentioned in this review, because the
fact of the matter is, Fire Emblem: Awakening is packed to the brim with
content. I imagine there's a number of things I missed in my playthrough as
well, and there are definitely features I did not utilize. For instance, there's
an Auto Battle mechanic, but I never once tried it, because it's optional. There
are also extra levels and characters that can be downloaded with Nintendo's
SpotPass, but I never did that either. My point with all this is, there's a huge
amount of content contained within Fire Emblem: Awakening, but the player is
given freedom to experience much of it only if they want to, and at no point
does it seem overwhelming.

I wholeheartedly recommend Fire Emblem: Awakening to anyone, whether they're
avid Fire Emblem fans, or have never played a Fire Emblem game in their life!

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/6ereTy4.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/6ereTy4m.jpg"/></a>
</figure>

---

<!--footnotes-->
[^1]: Fire Emblem (2003), Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones, Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance, Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn, and Fire Emblem: Shadow Dragon.

[^2]: Okay, I actually found out while researching for this review that this *wasn't* the first Fire Emblem title to feature an option to turn off permadeath. The previous entry, "Fire Emblem: New Mystery of the Emblem," was actually the first to include a Casual mode. But, it was exclusive to Japan!

[^3]: Again, "Fire Emblem: New Mystery of the Emblem" was the true first game in the series to feature an avatar for the player to customize, but Awakening was still the first game released internationally to do so.
