---
layout: post
title: Top 10 DS Games I Want To Play
author: bsinky
description: My personal top 10 DS Games I haven't played but would like to.
date: 2019-01-30
modified: 2019-09-09
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,DS,Backlog]
image:
    feature: feature-ds.jpg
redirect_from: /top%2010/top-10-ds-games-i-haven-t-played-but-want-to/
---

The time in which I had an original DS seems quite short, looking back at it. I
had the original silver DS model, not a DS Lite or anything like that. Despite
only owning the system for a few years, I still enjoyed a number of quality DS
games, and of course I *loved* the GBA backwards compatibility. Partially
because the DS was the first system I owned with a built-in backlight, but also
because the ability to play GBA and DS games on the same handheld was awesome! I
only owned the DS up until Pokémon Soul Silver and Heart Gold came out. Then I
traded it to a friend for a copy of Dragon Age: Origins on the Xbox 360, and my
days of playing DS games game to a halt for many years.

But now I've got a New Nintendo 2DS XL, and that DS backwards compatibility is
giving me the chance to experience all sorts of DS games I missed out on the
first time around! Here are my **Top 10 DS Games I Want To Play**!

<!--more-->

## 10. {% include game.html game="Magical Starsign" %}

I remember seeing an ad for this game somewhere, maybe in Nintendo Power, a long
time ago. Of course I forgot about it after a while, but I really wanted to try
this game back then. Something about it's art style always seemed intriguing. At
some point I was reminded this game existed, remembered my curiosity, and
naturally I added it to my DS backlog.

I don't really know anything about this game. I don't know what the gameplay is
like, or about the battle-system. I assume it's turn-based. I'm okay with not
knowing though, I kind of like that my idea of this game is just remembering
seeing some of the art somewhere and maybe one screenshot, and thinking to
myself, "that seems kind of neat."

The one thing I've heard about this game is that it's pretty easy, but that
doesn't sound like something I would mind.

## 9. {% include game.html game="Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Sky" %}

Sometimes I like the idea of playing a rogue-like. My understanding of the
Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series is that they're rogue-likes, and since I also
like Pokémon, this is a good game to fill that craving, right?

I've never played a game in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series before, if that
wasn't clear. I'm hoping this one is a good introduction to it!

## 8. {% include game.html game="Fullmetal Alchemist Dual Sympathy" %}

This game might be bad. The review scores aren't great, sitting at 58 on
Metacritic as of this writing. But I *really* enjoyed Fullmetal Alchemist's 2009
anime, and the Brotherhood anime, so I'm willing to give this game a shot based
on that. I may end up dropping it, but I want to at least give it a try!

## 7. {% include game.html game="Advance Wars Days of Ruin" %}

I loved Advance Wars Dual Strike, so naturally when I had my original DS I also
got this game. However, I never finished it! The changed art style, tone, and
mechanics threw me for a loop the first time, but I think if I approach this
game as a standalone title, and don't expect it to be like the previous Advance
Wars game, I'll be able to enjoy it more.

## 6. {% include game.html game="Professor Layton and the Curious Village" %}

I recently got this game as a gift for a friend, and they loved it! So, now I'm
pretty curious about the series as well.

Plus, Professor Layton games have a great reputation. They're known for stellar
presentation, clever puzzles...all of that just sounds really exciting! I
haven't played any of the game in the Professor Layton series, but I'm looking
forward to my first foray into the series!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Dragon Quest V" %}

Okay, this one's a bit flexible. I want to try one of the Dragon Quest DS
remakes, IV, V, or VI...but I have no idea which one I should start with.
Ideally, I'll love whichever one I play, become hooked, and have no choice but
to pick up another of the remakes. For now, I've decided to try Dragon Quest V
since it has the highest Metacritic score of the DS remakes as of this writing.

I've never played a Dragon Quest game before. I have played one of the spin-offs
though, Dragon Warrior Monsters 2: Tara's Adventure. That was a Game Boy Color
game I owned back when I had a Game Boy Advance. I had a ton of fun with that
game, so hopefully I enjoy the main Dragon Quest series just as much.

Dragon Quest V might not necessarily be my first main Dragon Quest game though.
By the time I get around to playing it, I may have played a different main
series title...the 3DS remake of VIII is pretty high up on my list!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Fire Emblem New Mystery of the Emblem" %}

I remember thinking Fire Emblem Shadow Dragon was okay on the DS. After recently
learning that New Mystery of the Emblem also existed as a Japanese exclusive,
but had a fan translation, I was pretty pumped, since it sounds like it has a
number of improvements over Shadow Dragon!

Side note, a *huge* thanks to all the dedicated fans around the world who've
worked to translate region exclusives like this one!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Luminous Arc" %}

Back when the DS was in full swing, I heard of this game. I was interested in it
because it seemed like it might be similar to Final Fantasy Tactics Advance in
some ways, a game I loved. But, I never got a chance to try it. Hoping to remedy
that in the near-ish future!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Chrono Trigger" %}

Chrono Trigger, originally released in 1995 on the SNES, is a classic JRPG in
the eyes of so many. I've heard it praised so many times online. Despite all
that, I've never played Chrono Trigger. But, I've decided the DS version is how
I'd like to do so!

## 1. {% include game.html game="The World Ends with You" %}

The World Ends with You has me *so* curious. I've heard it's pretty unique. I've
listened to the song in the OP before, Twister, and that alone has me wanting to
play this game. Afterward I listened to the OST on YouTube and enjoyed what I
heard there as well. If I find the gameplay enjoyable, this could end up being
one of my favorite DS games.

I'm not sure when I'll pick this one up but it's definitely at the top of my DS
backlog!

