---
layout: post
title: 10 Simulation Games to While Away the Hours
author: bsinky
description: "Ten simulation games on PC that can easily help you fill up any free time you may have!"
date: 2019-12-20
modified: 2019-12-20
categories: [List]
tags: [List,Simulation,PC]
image:
  feature: feature-simulation-games.jpg
  thumb: feature-simulation-games-thumb.jpg
  credit: Skitterphoto
  creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/blue-green-and-white-tilt-shift-lens-illustration-691467/
games:
- The Sims 4
- Minecraft
- Stardew Valley
- Jurassic World Evolution
- Prison Architect
- Euro Truck Simulator 2
- Oxygen Not Included
- Project Highrise
- Cities Skylines
- Kingdoms and Castles
---

Video games can be a significant time investment, which can be a pro or a con
depending on your mood, preferences, or work/family responsibilities. Simulation
games can be particularly good at making the hours slip away due to their
open-ended nature. Whereas many other games have a clearly defined end, in many
simulation games you're free to play as long as you want. In this list, we'll
look at ten simulation games on PC that can easily help you fill up any free
time you may have!

<!--more-->

First off, these games are in no particular order. Despite featuring ten games,
this isn't a Top 10. These are just ten simulation games I've really enjoyed on
PC, though I haven't put the same amount of time into all of them. Also, note
that while all of these are available on PC, a few of them are on other
platforms as well, which I'll list on the games in question! I can't vouch for
the quality or playability of the games on other platforms though, since I
haven't played those versions.

## &bull; {% include game.html game="The Sims 4" %}

**Platforms**: *PC, Xbox One, PS4*

Starting off with an obvious choice, The Sims 4 will easily take up hours of
your own life as you direct and shape the lives of your virtual humanoids, the
Sims. The Sims 4 may have had a rough launch, but by the time PatronusLight and
I picked it up, it was much more polished and complete. Today, it has enough
expansion packs available to allow for a huge variety of gameplay choices, if
you're willing to shell out more money for them.

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Minecraft" %}

**Platforms**: *PC, Xbox One, PS4, Switch, Xbox 360, PS3, Wii U, New 3DS, Android, iOS*

Another obvious choice, Minecraft puts you in a sandbox and gives you the
freedom to destroy and place blocks, as well as craft items and new block types
from raw materials. While there is a story, it's the freedom to build whatever
you want within its blocky confines that has inspired the imaginations of
millions, myself included. With the introduction of Minecraft Realms, Mojang's
official servers, getting a multiplayer world set up to play with friends has
never been easier.

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Stardew Valley" %}

**Platforms**: *PC, Xbox One, PS4, Switch, PSVita, Android, iOS*

Okay, one more obvious pick before we move on to the less obvious choices.
Distilled into its most basic premise, Stardew Valley is basically Harvest Moon
on PC. Through your avatar, you run a virtual farm, get to know the locals, and
can get married. But it offers so much more than that. Each of its systems is
perfectly tuned for fun, and it also offers exploration and combat within caves.
Add in the ability to have new buildings built on your plot of land, co-op
multiplayer support, and ongoing support from the developer, and you end up with
an extremely compelling indie game that you can easily put a ton of hours into,
and still find reasons to keep coming back.

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Jurassic World Evolution" %}

**Platforms**: *PC, Xbox One, PS4*

If you're a Jurassic Park fan like me, the idea of a simulation game where you
build your own Jurassic Park, or in this case, Jurassic World, is instantly
exciting. Jurassic World Evolution does exactly this, and though it has some
flaws, they don't ruin the experience by any means. Couple this with its
gorgeous graphics and a wide variety of dinosaur species, and you have a great
Jurassic Park sim on your hands!

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Prison Architect" %}

**Platforms**: *PC, Xbox One, PS4, Switch, Xbox 360, Android, iOS*

Prison Architect offers exactly what the title promises. You construct, staff,
and run a prison. You'll build prison cells, cafeterias, rec rooms, electric
chairs, and all other manner of prison elements, all while suppressing prison
riots, thwarting attempted prison breaks, and confiscating contraband. It's
certainly a grim topic for a simulation game, but an entertaining and addicting
one nonetheless!

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Euro Truck Simulator 2" %}

As far as relaxing simulation games go, this one could give even Stardew Valley
a run for its money. It's an odd thing. Driving semi-trucks and hauling cargo in
a video game seems like it would be incredibly dull. Yet the experience is
incredibly relaxing, and you'll quickly find yourself getting lost in the
hypnotic bliss of virtual European roads, obeying traffic laws, and making
deliveries on time.

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Oxygen Not Included" %}

Bearing a similar art style to one of Klei's other works, Don't Starve, Oxygen
Not Included puts you in command of a colony inside an asteroid, somewhere in
the depths of space. You'll need to assign your colonists tasks, ordering them
to gather materials and build the necessary tools and machines for survival.
There are so many systems within, it can be a little intimidating, and difficult
to learn. However, the cutesy nature of the colonists lightens the experience,
and makes it fun to learn, even when you fail and they die a horrible death.
It's definitely an addicting experience, and one well worth your time!

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Project Highrise" %}

**Platforms**: *PC, Xbox One, PS4, Switch, Android, iOS*

A skyscraper construction and management sim, there's something supremely
satisfying about starting from nothing and slowly building a towering center of
business, leisure, and apartments skyward. It's easy to get started, and very
easy to build an impressive skyscraper you can be proud of, but achieving a
profitable balance as you expand can be a fun challenge!

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Cities Skylines" %}

**Platforms**: *PC, Xbox One, PS4, Switch*

Scratching the same itch as Sim City, Cities: Skylines tasks you with building a
modern city. You'll zone areas for residential, commercial, and industrial
development, build roads and utilities, and construct all the necessities and
niceties that a city requires. There's a lot to manage, and it can be hard to
find the balance, but anyone who enjoyed playing the Sim City series should feel
right at home here.

## &bull; {% include game.html game="Kingdoms and Castles" %}

Kingdoms and Castles is a *highly* addicting medieval fantasy kingdom-building
sim, but it also doesn't take too long to build something that looks really
impressive. In that regard, it's more casual than some other sims on this list,
but I don't think that's a bad thing. It's also actively receiving updates at
the time of this writing, and while I haven't played in a while I assume that
these updates further add to the experience in a positive way. Building towering
walls and defenses to protect your kingdom against vikings and dragons, all
while maintaining peasant happiness and productivity, is incredibly fun, and I
highly recommend this game because of it!
