---
author: bsinky
categories:
- List
date: 2019-05-04
description: bsinky's Top 10 games in his Steam backlog as of May 2019
games:
- Dishonored Death of the Outsider
- Final Fantasy IX
- Undertale
- The Legend of Heroes Trails of Cold Steel II
- Tokyo Dark
- Danganronpa Trigger Happy Havoc
- Bayonetta
- The Banner Saga 3
- Hollow Knight
- Valkyria Chronicles
image:
  credit: John Petalcurin
  creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/close-up-photo-of-gaming-keyboard-2115257/
  feature: feature-steam-pc.jpg
  thumb: feature-steam-pc-thumb.jpg
layout: post
modified: 2020-05-10
tags:
- Top 10
- Steam
- Backlog
title: Top 10 Games in my Steam Backlog
---

My Steam backlog is *super* long, as of this writing there are 762 games under
PC in my Backlog on HowLongToBeat.com! Granted, some of those may be multiplayer
games, which I wouldn't really count, so it could do with some cleaning up.
Still, after cleaning it I no doubt would have hundreds of games from Steam to
play through. The following list of games are those in my Backlog I intend to
play before the other 752, but you never know - by the time I get to playing
some of the them, my Steam library will probably have grown, and maybe something
else will have pushed its way to the top!

<!--more-->

You'll see a number of PC ports in this list. One of my favorite things about
Steam are the steep sales games often see on the platform, so that leads me to
pick up a game for PC over most any other platform if it has a PC port since I
know I probably won't get a better deal on a game's console release.

Also, note that the release dates listed are for the Steam versions of these
games. Whatever the Steam store page lists for release date and developer,
that's what I've put here!

## 10. {% include game.html game="Dishonored Death of the Outsider" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: Finished! You can [read my thoughts in this post]({% post_url 2020-03-09-what-im-playing-no-62 %}#Dishonored:DeathoftheOutsider). It's spoiler-free, save for some screenshots revealing mission objectives but these are only spoilers if you want to go in without knowing what the missions are like.

Dishonored and its sequel blew me away with their steampunk, black magic-infused
world and their play-your-way but remember the consequences approach to
gameplay. Allowing you to be stealthy if you want to be, or loud and murderous
if you prefer. Dishonored has never let me down in the past.

I'm hoping that statement remains true with Dishonored: Death of the Outsider.
It contains new supernatural powers, as each new Dishonored title has, which
should be fun to play around with!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Final Fantasy IX" %}

Originally released on the PlayStation in 2000, Final Fantasy IX has received
rave reviews from both critics and fans alike. It's now available on many
platforms, including Xbox One, PS4, Switch, and, of course, PC.

Final Fantasy is a legendary series, but I've played basically none of the main
numbered games. After hearing this entry hyped up a lot by one of my co-workers,
I picked up Final Fantasy IX on a sale to try it for myself.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Undertale" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: I have since played and enjoyed Undertale! It was a unique experience, and I'd definitely recommend it to anyone looking for a novel RPG. You can [read more of my thoughts on it in What I'm Playing No. 71]({% post_url 2020-05-11-what-im-playing-no-71 %}#Undertale).

Undertale is an RPG with a unique combat system that's turn-based with what's
described as a mini-bullet hell system. You can choose to spare the lives of the
enemies you face, which has an affect on many aspects of the game.

People on the Internet are wildly in support of Undertale, and often write about
what an incredible experience it is. I'm trying not to let that cloud but my
judgment, but seeing so many people write good things about it, my hopes are
pretty high for Undertale!

## 7. {% include game.html game="The Legend of Heroes Trails of Cold Steel II" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: Finished! I didn't review this one since it feels odd to review the
second game without also reviewing the first, and it's been so long now since I
played it that I don't feel I'd be able to review the first game at all anymore.
It was fun though, I'm definitely glad I got into this series!

Originally a PS Vita and PS3 title, The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel
II got a very well received PC port in February of 2018, and as of this writing
is scheduled to get a PS4 release quite soon, in June 2019. Trails of Cold Steel
II is a JRPG with a fun turn-based battle system, charming characters, and a lot
of lore.

Playing the first Trails of Cold Steel game on Steam was a lot of fun. It was
excellent in its own right. *But*, from everything I've heard about this series,
it only gets better the more into the lore you get, as the world building Nihon
Falcom has done over several video game arcs is sometimes said to be second to
none. The next step in getting deeper into this series for me will be Trails of
Cold Steel II, and I am excited to join main character Rean Schwarzer again!
There's also Trails of Cold Steel III and IV, both of which have yet to see
English releases, but III is scheduled to receive one in late 2019!

## 6. {% include game.html game="Tokyo Dark" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Finished! Tokyo Dark wasn't perfect, and seems like it didn't quite reach its full potential, but it was still a good experience. [Read more about my thoughts on it here]({% post_url 2019-12-23-what-im-playing-no-51 %}#TokyoDark).

Part Point and Click, part Visual Novel, Tokyo Dark combines the two to present
a story about a detective in Tokyo investigating the disappearance of her
partner. Exploration and puzzle solving await, if you can keep main character
Detective Ito's sanity intact long enough.

I enjoyed one of the last point and click games I played, Kathy Rain, quite a
lot, so when I heard about Tokyo Dark it sounded interesting enough that I added
it to my wishlist. Even though I don't know a lot about this game, when I saw it
was part of a Humble Bundle recently, I took a chance and picked it up. Let's
hope this gamble pays off!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Danganronpa Trigger Happy Havoc"  checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: Finished, and what a fantastic story it was! Read my spoiler-free thoughts on the main story [here]({% post_url 2019-12-09-what-im-playing-no-49 %}#Danganronpa:TriggerHappyHavoc), and my thoughts on the post-game School Mode [here]({%post_url 2019-12-16-what-im-playing-no-50 %}#Danganronpa:TriggerHappyHavoc).

Makoto Naegi and his classmates at Hope's Peak Academy are exceptional Japanese
high school students, living ordinary lives. All that changes when they suddenly
find themselves imprisoned in the school by a strange bear creature named
Monokuma. There's only one way to escape: Monokuma has promised freedom to
anyone who can murder one of their classmates and get away with it.

Originally released for the PSP in 2010, Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc has
since been ported to numerous systems, including PC. It's a Visual Novel game
where you investigate murders and play detective to try and solve them. I've not
played a full-on Visual Novel game before, but from what I've heard, Danganronpa
is probably a really interesting place to start. Of course, I've played games
with some Visual Novel elements. The Persona series takes inspiration from them,
especially the story mode in Persona 4: Dancing All Night, which is presented as
a Visual Novel. I've heard so much praise directed at the Danganronpa series as
a whole from YouTuber Austin Eruption that I've been convinced to try it myself!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Bayonetta" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Finished! Bayonetta was a lot of fun, and very memorable! You can [read my thoughts on it here]({% post_url 2019-12-01-what-im-playing-no-48 %}#Bayonetta)!

Bayonetta is a hack 'n' slash game where you play as the character of the same
name. Originally a PS3 and Xbox 360 game, the PC port is regarded very well,
judging by reviews on the Steam page. The PC port promises smooth 60 FPS
gameplay, HD graphics, which should allow the hack 'n' slash gameplay to truly
shine in all its glory.

I only know Bayonetta from her appearances in Super Smash Bros., but she clearly
has a lot of style. I'm assuming the same is true of her eponymous debut!

## 3. {% include game.html game="The Banner Saga 3" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Finished! And with this, my Banner Saga trilogy experiences comes to an end. This was a great conclusion! I didn't review it, but you can read about my playthrough of it [in What I'm Playing No. 46]({% post_url 2019-11-18-what-im-playing-no-46 %}) and [What I'm Playing No. 47]({% post_url 2019-11-25-what-im-playing-no-47 %}).

I *loved* the story Stoic presented through the first two Banner Saga games. The
art and animation were also beautiful. Gameplay is fantastic as well, allowing
plenty of room for strategy. Your choices impact what happens at certain
junctions, and I love how this works in this world. It's a bleak tale more often
than not, but that's a large part of its charm. In The Banner Saga 3, I'll get
to see the conclusion, and find out what everything has led up to. I'm excited!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Hollow Knight" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Another one checked off the old backlog! I *really* enjoyed this one, you can check out [my spoiler-free review of it here]({% post_url 2020-02-23-hollow-knight-review %}).

Hollow Knight is a Metroidvania, which means the gameplay involves some
combination of common Metroid and Castlevania elements. For Hollow Knight, that
means exploration, unlocking new powers that let you explore further, and combat
that involves dodging, dashing, and slashing your way to victory. Hand-drawn 2D
art completes the experience to bring the insect-riddled world of Hollow Knight
to life.

Since its original PC release, it has been ported to all the major current
generation consoles, and has received near universal acclaim. I'd love to see
what it's all about!

## 1. {% include game.html game="Valkyria Chronicles" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Finished, and what a game it was! [Read my full review here]({% post_url 2019-11-08-valkyria-chronicles-review %}).

Valkyria Chronicles sounds it'll be exactly my cup of tea. The way combat works
seems vaguely reminiscent of one of my favorite overlooked games from the early
2000s, Future Tactics: The Uprising! I don't know how closely the combat in
each game actually compares though. It's described as having real-time action
elements and RPG elements, so that sounds fun enough in its own right. The
graphics here seem really interesting too. They're supposed to have a watercolor
painting sort of look, which should be a unique and pleasing look.
