---
layout: post
title: Nintendo Direct 9.4.2019
author: bsinky
description: "My thoughts on the games and moments that stuck out to me during the September 4th 2019 Nintendo Direct."
date: 2019-09-05
modified: 2019-09-05
categories: [News]
tags: [Nintendo Direct,Switch,Hype]
image:
  feature: feature-nintendo-direct.jpg
  thumb: feature-nintendo-direct-thumb.jpg
---

I wasn't able to watch it live, but after catching up on the Nintendo Direct
presentation streamed on September 4th, 2019, I thought it was a solid
presentation! There were a some exciting new announcements, a few of which I'd
dreamed in the past and was delighted to hear they would soon be a reality!

<!--more-->

[Here's a link to the full Nintendo Direct video](https://youtu.be/8TVE44feo_I),
but I'll also link to specific video segments below for each announcement I
found interesting. I'm not covering every game shown. For instance, I'm not an
Overwatch player, but I'm glad Switch owners who are will be able to play it on
their Switch.

Another note I want to get out of the way, I haven't written any about the
Animal Crossing: New Horizons footage they showed, because I don't think
anything new was announced...? It all looked *adorable* and *amazing*, but I
think it was all features previously covered between the last Direct and the
Nintendo Treehouse presentation. So that's that: I'm super excited for the new
Animal Crossing, but nothing particularly notable was shown here.

Okay, with all that out of the way, here were the announcements that I had a
reaction to, or had some specific thought about, in order of appearance during
the Direct!

### {% include game.html game="Luigi's Mansion 3" video="GHhY-SUYOms" %}

Luigi's Mansion 3 is looking good! The new environments have a lot of charm, I'm
interesting to see what the disco one is like in-game!

The ScreamPark multiplayer they revealed didn't do much for me. The 8-player
local multiplayer mode sounds great in theory, but I don't see myself getting 7
other people together to play it ever.

### {% include game.html game="Super Smash Bros. Ultimate" %}

#### Banjo & Kazooie

[![](https://i.imgur.com/KGRRmtUm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/KGRRmtU.jpg)
{: .image-right }

Nintendo's YouTube channel doesn't have a video for just this clip, but Banjo &
Kazooie launched immediately after the Direct! Nintendo loves dropping immediate
surprise releases like this during a Direct. I wasn't expecting this one at all
because they'd announced earlier that Banjo would be releasing in Fall, and it's
still technically Spring! I'm not complaining though, the Smash Ultimate roster
just keeps getting more and more impressive.

#### 4th Fighter's Pass DLC character - Terry Bogard

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FxnUT1goPL8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Nintendo wasn't done with Smash announcements there though. They revealed that
Terry Bogard, from developer SNK's Fatal Fury series, would be joining the ranks
as the 4th Fighter's Pass DLC fighter.

The way they handled this reveal was so clever. Like past reveals, there was a
bit of trolling, beginning with the Nintendo console timeline sliding all the
way back to NES/Game & Watch. Then it bounced up to SNES, before finally
shifting sideways to the Neo Geo! Then when the Smash Ultimate invite narrowly
escapes the clutches of several SNK characters, whoever directed this reveal
trailer was just in full-on Troll Mode.

I don't believe I've ever played a game from SNK. I know I haven't played Fatal
Fury, but I'll gladly welcome new franchises to Smash Bros.! The broader the
rosters' representation of game franchises the better, in my opinion.

#### More DLC fighters will come after the 5 for the Fighters Pass are done

To pile on *even more* Smash Ultimate news, they announced that other new
fighters are already in development, beyond the initial 5 promised for the
Fighter's Pass! Basically, there's going to be another "season" of DLC, and
although a 2nd Fighter's Pass hasn't been announced, I'm assuming there will be
one. The roster is going to be absolutely *massive* when all is said and done,
and I love it!

### {% include game.html game="Tokyo Mirage Sessions FE Encore" video="Pfq1yFegQ0s" %}

This was the first new announcement I got actively excited for! The original
Tokyo Mirage Sessions ♯FE was exclusive to Wii U, so I never got a chance to
play it. It's a "Shin Megami Tensei x Fire Emblem" game that leans more toward
the Shin Megami Tensei side, though it's closer to a Persona game thematically.
Until this Direct announcement, it sort of seemed like Tokyo Mirage Sessions
would exclusive to Wii U for all eternity. But with the reveal of the "Encore"
port to Switch, we know that won't be the case!

The timing of this seems highly deliberate. The way they introduce it with
"looking for more Fire Emblem goodness?" is obviously building on the popularity
of Fire Emblem: Three Houses. But I think the games don't have a ton in common,
and the Fire Emblem elements here are pretty minimal, and are just represented
as some sort of summonable entities in battle. Doesn't matter to me though, I'm
looking forward to playing this Persona-esque game with Fire Emblem Personas on
my Switch when it comes out in early 2020.

### {% include game.html game="Pokémon Sword & Pokémon Shield" video="sx06810AI-o" %}

The ability to further customize the hairstyle of the player character is a
welcome expansion. This time around there seem to be a lot more hairstyles to
choose from compared to previous games, for both male and female characters.

Honestly, I'm surprised at how much I like one of the newly announced Pokémon,
Polteageist. I remain disappointed that not all Pokémon will be programmed into
the game, but I'm still looking forward to the new Pokémon and region. I'm sure
there are some very passionate people working at Game Freak that poured their
heart and soul into these games, and they probably did the best they could with
the resources they had.

### Super Nintendo Entertainment System - Nintendo Switch Online

<figure class="center">
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/esNJUSMsDG4" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="" id="fitvid519402" frameborder="0"></iframe>
  <ul>
    <li>Release: September 5, 2019</li>
  </ul>
</figure>

Just like with the NES titles available for Nintendo Switch Online subscribers,
Nintendo is now launching a SNES lineup of games for Online subscribers. It's a
very solid lineup of first party titles for the launch: The Legend of Zelda: A
Link to the Past, Super Metroid, both Super Mario World games, Star Fox, F-Zero,
and a slew of 3rd party games.

But it's just a drop in the ocean compared to the potential of the SNES library.
Games like Final Fantasy III, Chrono Trigger, and the Donkey Kong Country series
aren't available, and I'd love to see Super Mario RPG in the linup as well.
These may be added as time goes on, but that's definitely not guaranteed.

For me personally, I don't see myself playing this initial SNES lineup that
much. The only game available at launch that's currently in my backlog is Breath
of Fire, and it'll probably be a while before I get around to playing it. I've
played all the first party gems here already, and I'm not feeling the urge to
replay them at the moment.

### {% include game.html game="Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition" video="nLEkwIvfOO4" %}

I'd heard rumors on Twitter that Monolith Soft would be presenting something
during the Direct. That "something" turned out to be a remake of Xenoblade
Chronicles! It seems to be a remake/remaster of the original game in the
Xenoblade Chronicles 2 engine. The difference in graphical quality from the
original Wii version to what they showed off during the Direct is *incredible*.
Nintendo consoles have come a long way since the Wii! I've never played the
original, so this should be an excellent way to experience it! It has a vague
release date of simply 2020 at the moment.

Hearing that piano theme during the trailer gave me chills, and seeing the
iconic image of the Monado stuck in the ground, with the title above it, just
wow! What a great way to end this Nintendo Direct!
