---
layout: post
title: Top 10 PSP Games in my Backlog
author: bsinky
description: My personal list of the Top 10 PSP Games in my Backlog.
date: 2019-02-28
modified: 2019-09-09
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,PSP]
image:
    feature: feature-psp.jpg
redirect_from: /top%2010/top-10-psp-games-in-my-backlog/
---

Having been playing a lot of Persona 3 Portable lately, Sony's PlayStation
Portable (PSP) has been on my mind a lot.

I never had a PSP, so I missed out on the system and its library entirely. Now I
have several possible ways to experience the PSP titles I missed out on, whether
that be on my PSTV by playing games from PlayStation Network, or emulating them
on my phone or PC. Personally, I've really enjoyed playing Persona 3 Portable on
my phone with a Bluetooth controller. The one I have expands and your phone sits
in the middle with the buttons on either side, so I like to imagine that the
experience is similar to a real PSP.

Enough rambling though, let's get into the Top 10 PSP Games in my Backlog!

<!--more-->

## 10. {% include game.html game="PoPoLoCrois" %}

I really am a *sucker* for games with an isometric art style. PoPoLoCrois is
described as having a combat system similar to Final Fantasy Tactics. That alone
has me interested, and those are really the only things I know about
PoPoLoCrois! Its review scores are pretty average, with a 66 on Metacritic. So
it might not be a masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination, but I'd still
like to give it a shot.

## 9. {% include game.html game="Metal Gear Acid" %}

Apparently, you're supposed to type the title for this one as METAL GEAR AC!D.
Metal Gear Acid is a turn-based collectible card tactical RPG according to its
Wikipedia page, and that sounds really unique! Even though I haven't played any
other Metal Gear game, I find myself wanting to try Metal Gear Acid. I may need
to do a *little* research, just to see if knowledge of prior Metal Gear titles
is required to enjoy the game's story.

It's weird but, when I was writing up this list I thought Metal Gear Acid
sounded like one of the most interesting PSP games in my backlog. I thought I
was reading out it for the first time, but as I wrote this article I realized I
had heard of Metal Gear Acid *years* ago, probably when it first came out. I
remember reading about it in Game Informer, and I thought it sounded cool enough
back then that I wished I owned a PSP! It's interesting that I would become
interested in this game, forget about it, and then find my way back to it now,
so many years later.

Metal Gear Acid is definitely on my radar, I may give it a try even if I
have no hope of understanding the plot!

## 8. {% include game.html game="Yggdra Union We'll Never Fight Alone" %}

Yggdra Union: We'll Never Fight Alone was released originally on the Game Boy
Advance, and later on the PSP. I believe I read somewhere that the PSP version
was better...for some reason? Maybe just for the higher resolution of the PSP
screen compared to the GBA.

Anyway, it's a tactical RPG, and it sounds pretty unique from the brief
summaries I've read of the in-game systems. There's a 2D map that you move and
position units on, a card system controlling the movement and skills available
to a unit, and the "Union" formation system which I know nothing about, but
seems like it might be pretty important given that it's part of the name of the
game.

It sounds like there's a lot going on in Yggdra Union, so I can't help but be
curious to try it all out.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Star Ocean First Departure" %}

I really enjoy the Tales Of series, but I've never gotten into Star Ocean, a
series that shares roots with Tales Of. Developers who had worked on the first
Tales Of game, Tales of Phantasia, left the team and created Star Ocean. As
far as I know, both series have similar elements, most notably the real-time
battle systems.

Star Ocean: First Departure is a remake of the original Star Ocean game. It
includes a number of enhancements, and unlike the original game, it actually saw
an official English release! If it feels anything like a Tales Of game, I'm sure
I'll feel right at home when I play this one.

## 6. {% include game.html game="Class of Heroes 2" %}

This game is a dungeon-crawler RPG, and as such it has the player explore
dungeons with their party members, fighting monsters in turn-based battles along
the way. It seems like you have a lot of control in customizing your party,
allowing you to pick from almost all of the character classes right from the
beginning of the game.

Honestly, I've not been into the dungeon-crawler genre much before. It's a genre
I'd *like* to experience more of though, to figure out if I actually like it or
if it's just not for me. That said, I'm hoping that Class of Heroes 2 is the one
to really get me into the genre! I think being able to play it casually on my
phone and grind a bit here and there could help.

## 5. {% include game.html game="Persona 2 Innocent Sin" %}

Persona 2: Innocent Sin was originally released in Japan on the PlayStation in
1999 . However, the PlayStation version of Innocent Sin never received an
English release. It wasn't until 2011 that the rest of the world got this game,
when the PSP remake of Persona 2: Innocent Sin was released in English for the
first time. I'm a big fan of Persona 3 onward, but I haven't played through any
of the earlier Persona games. The earlier games are pretty different in a lot of
ways. Actually, I've played about 4 hours of Persona 2: Innocent Sin's PSP port
on my PlayStation TV, and just from that time alone I can see how *huge* of a
departure from the prior games Persona 3 was.

Though Innocent Sin has since slipped back into my Backlog, in the 4 hours I
played I definitely saw the charm in it. I was already becoming interested in
the characters, mechanics, and story. The music was pretty good too, what I
heard so far didn't compare to the music of the newer games though. The gameplay
just didn't grab my attention quite like the newer games either, but it was
still fun.

I really do want to finish Persona 2: Innocent Sin someday, and then I can play
its sequel, Persona 2: Eternal Punishment, which was also released on the
PlayStation but confusingly *did* see an English localization right away. It
gets weirder though because there's also a PSP remake of Eternal Punishment, but
*that* version only came out in Japan...!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Brave Story New Traveler" %}

Apparently, this game is *loosely* based on the world present in the novel
"Brave Story," which later spawned a related manga simply called "Brave Story"
as well. I hadn't heard of either before this, but it's an interesting note.

Brave Story: New Traveler looks to be a complete JRPG experience on the PSP,
which is pretty cool! There's exploration, some (probably simple) puzzles,
characters to meet, and a turn-based battle system. The exploration segments
have a camera angle over the 3D world that makes it feel isometric, it reminds
me a bit of what I've seen of some of the earlier games in the Tales Of series,
except in 3D.

## 3. {% include game.html game="Final Fantasy Tactics The War of the Lions" %}

I've heard nothing but praise for Final Fantasy Tactics. Final Fantasy Tactics
Advance is one of my favorite games, but I've never experienced the original
that launched the brief series. I've heard the story is impressive, especially
when compared to Final Fantasy Tactics Advance.

Final Fantasy Tactics: The War of the Lions is a remake of the original
PlayStation game for the PSP, with several added features. Adjustments were made
for the aspect ratio of the PSP's screen, and new cutscenes were added. This
version also has a new localization compared to the original PlayStation
release. I've read differing opinions on this, some prefer the original
translations while others claim the original had too many issues and the PSP
version is superior. Having never played the original, I won't be able to judge
the translation personally. I'm assuming I won't have an issue with it though,
I'm not a very critical person in general.

Honestly, I debated whether this game should be higher on my backlog, possibly
in the number 1 spot, but seeing the next two games just left me feeling more
excited to play them so I had to push Final Fantasy Tactics down to here.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Grand Knights History" %}

A Vanillaware-developed game, Grand Knights History sports the recognizable art
style and character designs that Vanillaware is known for. Though it never
received an official English release, there's a fan translation available!
Huzzah!

It's an RPG with turn-based battles, but also seems to employ a small grid
during battles and allows you to adjust your character formation. I'm not sure
how important positioning on the grid is, but from the brief gameplay I've
watched, it seems like area-of-effect attacks can be used to attack units if
they're standing on the tiles the attack targets. This seems like it will add a
nice little layer on top of what otherwise looks like a pretty standard
turn-based system.

The fantasy theme, presentation, and turn-based battle system all look very
appealing to me.

## 1. {% include game.html game="Jeanne d'Arc" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: Finished! You
can [read my review of it here]({% post_url 2019-04-27-jeanne-d-arc-review %}).

The art of this game intrigues me. I'm also a sucker for isometric games, and
Jeanne d'Arc delivers that while also giving me heavy Final Fantasy Tactics
Advance vibes, based on what I've seen. The turn-based gameplay is also very
enticing. Plus, it's the story of Joan of Arc but with a bunch of fantasy
elements, so it seems pretty original! It also seems that a number of characters
portrayed in-game were real-world allies of Joan of Arc, so it even has some
bits of historical accuracy. Also, it's a true PSP exclusive. It isn't a remake
or enhanced port or anything like that.

Jeanne d'Arc was also the first PSP game I became interested in. A while back, I
was researching PSP exclusive games and learned of Jeanne d'Arc's existence.
Immediately, it looked and sounded intriguing, and it's been on my PSP backlog
ever since!

Other than that, I don't really know much about this game this game, but having
seen a few screenshots of gameplay and read a brief description, it seems when I
pick it up I will be treated to strategic grid-based battles with RPG elements,
and that's all I really need to know!
