---
layout: post
title: Top 10 3DS Games in my Backlog
author: bsinky
description: My personal list of the top 10 3DS games in my backlog
date: 2019-04-17
modified: 2019-07-27
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,3DS]
image:
    feature: feature-3ds.jpg
    credit: Emre Can
    creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/blue-and-white-abstract-painting-2110951/
    thumb: feature-3ds-thumb.jpg
---

I haven't had my New Nintendo 2DS XL for very long. The Nintendo 3DS launched 7
years before I ever had one. In that time, the system built up a wealth of great
games. Games loved by critics and fans alike. Titles from beloved Nintendo
franchises like Mario, The Legend of Zelda, Metroid, Animal Crossing, Fire
Emblem, Pok√©mon...possibly every Nintendo series is represented on the 3DS. Of
course, other developers created great games for the system too, and between
them and Nintendo, there are games for every kind of gamer on this platform.

The following list contains the top 10 3DS games in my backlog, but this is just
a small slice of 3DS's excellent library, and there are far more 3DS titles that
I want to play someday!

<!--more-->

Picking just 10 games for this list was *tough*. Honorable mentions include the
Yo-Kai Watch games, Ever Oasis, Kid Icarus: Uprising, the Mario & Luigi games,
and many, many more!

## 10. The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/2ORSfaH.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/2ORSfaHm.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Nintendo EAD</li>
        <li>Release: November 22, 2013</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

The Legend of Zelda is a franchise I always enjoy, and I've yet to play one of
the 3DS's only original entries in the series - The Legend of Zelda: A Link
Between Worlds. It has strong ties to The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past,
partly because it was originally imagined as a remake of A Link to the Past
in its early stages.

There are two unique features in A Link Between Worlds. The first, wall merging,
allows Link to transform into a 2D mural painted on a wall, and move
horizontally along the wall. This is used to solve puzzles, reach new areas, and
even travel between Hyrule and the parallel world Lorule. The second feature is
the item rental system, where instead of finding new equipment in dungeons, Link
can rent or buy it from a merchant's shop. This allows you to challenge many of
the dungeons in whatever order you want, making the experience more non-linear.

Interestingly, although it was developed in Japan, A Link Between Worlds
actually came out *last* there, with the Japanese launch happening a month after
the North American, European, and Australian releases.

## 9. Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/NSnyBeY.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/NSnyBeYm.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Next Level Games & Nintendo SPD</li>
        <li>Release: March 24, 2013</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

Known simply as Luigi's Mansion 2 everywhere but North America, I can't for the
life of me figure out why the North American region had to rename it "Luigi's
Mansion: Dark Moon."

I always liked the original Luigi's Mansion on the GameCube. This sequel was a
long time coming, and though I didn't have a 3DS when it released in 2013, I do
now, and it's only a matter of time before I partake in more ghost-hunting as
the most green Mario brother!

## 8. Shin Megami Tensei IV

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/Zsf3Jjo.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/Zsf3Jjom.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Atlus</li>
        <li>Release: July 16, 2013</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

Shin Megami Tensei (SMT) is known for its turn-based combat, and later games
have added some spice to this by introducing the Press Turn combat system.
Essentially, by exploiting enemy weaknesses, you can gain more attacks, and thus
earn a huge advantage in battle. However, the same goes for enemies, and they
will ruthlessly exploit your weaknesses to gain a similar advantage. This kind
of system keeps things interesting, as you need to stay on your toes to avoid
getting demolished in battle! Other classic SMT staples that return in IV are
Demon recruitment and fusion. You can recruit the Demons you face, and they'll
join your party to fight alongside you in future battles. You can also fuse two
of your Demons together to form a new Demon who inherits some of the skills of
its fusion components. In the Persona spin-off games, I've always enjoyed the
fusion systems, so fusion in SMT should be quite enjoyable as well.

As a fan of the Persona spin-offs, I ought to try out some of the mainline games
that spawned the spin-off series, right? I don't know what the best place to
start in Shin Megami Tensei is, but starting with Shin Megami Tensei IV seems
very enticing because it's on a handheld! Of course, if I wait long enough Shin
Megami Tensei V will come out on the Switch, which is both portable and playable
on the big screen...that sounds enticing as well!

## 7. Bravely Default

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/xnfrFg8.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/xnfrFg8m.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Silicon Studio</li>
        <li>Release: February 7, 2014</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

Bravely Default seems like a nice JRPG very reminiscent of early Final Fantasy
titles, but with modern graphics and niceties. 

Battles in Bravely Default trigger as random encounters, but they can be
adjusted or even disabled at any point outside battle. Difficulty level can also
be adjusted outside of battle. This kind of freedom sounds great, because if
ever combat starts to feel like a grind, or random encounters are really
limiting progress in an area, these settings can be adjusted, allowing any
player to enjoy the game. There's also the Brave Points (BP) system, which
allows your characters to take more than one action on their turn.

Lastly, the job system in Bravely Default sounds fun as well. Characters can
freely be assigned any job once its been unlocked after defeating certain
bosses. There are 24 different jobs, and in addition to the skills the current
job provides, a character can also learn skills from a second job.

All of this reminds me of Final Fantasy III when I played a bit of that on the
DS. The job system is like Final Fantasy Tactics Advance in some ways, which
sounds great. I'm looking forward to giving Bravely Default a try someday!

## 6. Dragon Quest VIII

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/72JZffQ.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/72JZffQm.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Square Enix</li>
        <li>Release: January 20, 2017</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

I never played the PS2 original, and though there are some drawbacks to the 3DS
port mostly due to the reduced resolution, the selling point for me is this: the
PS2 original has random encounters, while the 3DS port does not. The enemies in
the 3DS version show up in the environment and can be avoided if you don't feel
like entering battle, and this is hugely preferable to me!

Dragon Quest is a series I want to get into just due to its incredible legacy
and popularity, especially in Japan. Plus, it has so many elements I enjoy.
Turn-based battles, monsters, fun characters...all the makings of a classic
JRPG, which makes sense as Dragon Quest played a large part in defining what a
JRPG is! As of this writing I haven't played one yet. I have played one of the
Dragon Quest Monsters spin-off titles though, Dragon Warrior Monsters 2: Tara's
Adventure on the Game Boy Color. There's a good chance VIII will be my entry
point in the main series!

## 5. Radiant Historia: Perfect Chronology

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/RTmXTRk.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/RTmXTRkm.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Atlus</li>
        <li>Release: February 13, 2018</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

Radiant Historia: Perfect Chronology is an enhanced port of the DS original,
Radiant Historia. In both, you follow the adventures of Stocke. The continent
Vainqueur, home to the warring nations of Alistel and Granorg, is doomed to
become a lifeless waste due to the Sand Plague. What sets Radiant Historia apart
from other games is its Time Travel mechanics. Stocke wields the White
Chronicle, a magical book that allows him to travel between alternate timelines.
It is up to him to use this power to prevent the Sand Plague from consuming the
continent.

I've seen *waves* of praise for Radiant Historia, both for its original release
on the DS and the Perfect Chronology remake on the 3DS. Praise is directed both
at the story, and the turn-based battle system. Battles take place on a grid as
well, adding an extra level of strategy to fights. Given all the praise I've
heard of it, I just *have* to try it out.

## 4. Xenoblade Chronicles 3D

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/O51Sgq4.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/O51Sgq4m.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Monolith Soft & Monster Games</li>
        <li>Release: April 10, 2015</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

Xenoblade Chronicles originally released on the Wii in 2012. It's an open world
action RPG. Xenoblade Chronicles 3D is a port of the game to the New 3DS, and
it's supposed to be a pretty good port. It's one of the few games that requires
a New Nintendo 3DS, and won't run on an original 3DS.

The premise of Xenoblade Chronicles is pretty interesting. The entire game takes
place on the frozen bodies of giant titans Bionis and Mechonis. On the bodies of
the titans, entire races live. Those who live on Bionis are in constant war with
the mechanical Mechon race from Mechonis. The protagonist, Shulk, is one of
those from Bionis, and the game follows his quest for revenge against the Mechon
for attacking his colony.

## 3. Persona Q2: New Cinema Labyrinth <i class="fa fa-check" aria-hidden="true"></i>

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/CpRizhq.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/CpRizhqm.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Atlus</li>
        <li>Release: June 4, 2019</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

**Edit:** I've finished Persona Q2! [Read the review here!]({% post_url 2019-07-27-persona-q2-review %})

Persona Q2 is dungeon crawler RPG in which the casts of Persona 3, 4, and 5 all
meet up. As of this writing, this is a future 3DS release! I've pre-ordered it,
even though I wasn't a huge fan of the gameplay in Persona Q. I love the
characters though, so even if I don't connect with the gameplay in Persona Q2,
I'm excited to play it and see the characters from Persona 3, 4, and 5 interact
for the first time.

Supposedly, the development team has made gameplay improvements and difficulty
balances, so maybe I will enjoy Persona Q2's gameplay as well as its characters.

## 2. Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia <i class="fa fa-check" aria-hidden="true"></i>

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/J0CobZI.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/J0CobZIm.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Intelligent Systems</li>
        <li>Release: May 19, 2017</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

**Edit:** I've finished Shadows of Valentia!
[Here's my review!]({% post_url 2019-07-20-fire-emblem-echoes-shadows-of-valentia-review %})

Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia is actually a remake of the 2nd Fire
Emblem game, Fire Emblem Gaiden. While Gaiden was exclusive to Japan, Shadows of
Valentia received a worldwide release.

From reading the Wikipedia article on it, this game does a lot of things that
other Fire Emblems games have not done. There's some dungeon crawling, a Fatigue
meter, and probably other differences and unique mechanics as well. All of that
sounds like it should make for a very interesting experience! After playing
Shadows of Valentia, I will be able to say that I have played every Fire Emblem
game officially released in English! I'm hoping to do this before Fire Emblem:
Three Houses comes out on the Switch, so that I'm ready to tackle that game as
well.

## 1. Fire Emblem Fates: Conquest <i class="fa fa-check" aria-hidden="true"></i>

<figure class="half center">
    <a href="https://i.imgur.com/1PplUJN.jpg"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/1PplUJNm.jpg"/></a>
    <ul>
        <li>Developer: Intelligent Systems & Nintendo SPD</li>
        <li>Release: February 19, 2016</li>
    </ul>
</figure>

**Edit:** I've finished not only Conquest, but all 3 versions of Fire Emblem
Fates!
[Here's my review!]({% post_url 2019-06-01-fire-emblem-fates-review %})

Now that I've played the hugely successful Fire Emblem: Awakening, I feel like a
natural next step is continuing to play the Fire Emblem series in chronological
release order. Thus, Fire Emblem Fates is next!

Fates has two versions: Conquest or Birthright. Both are quite different from
what I've read, but involve the same characters. Conquest is the path I plan to
play first. I'll probably play Birthright at some point. Depending on how much I
enjoy the characters and world in Fates, maybe I'll play the Birthright path
immediately after finishing Conquest. Then of course there's also the
Revelations DLC, which is the canon path I guess. Anyway, I picked Conquest to
start with as I've heard it offers a higher challenge, and I guess I'm looking
forward to testing my Fire Emblem chops! I've actually started Fates already, so
of course it's at the top of my backlog!
