---
layout: post
title: Top 10 PS2 Games in my Backlog
author: bsinky
description: The top 10 PS2 games in my Backlog
date: 2019-03-08
modified: 2019-09-21
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,PS2]
image:
    feature: feature-ps2.jpg
redirect_from: /top%2010/top-10-ps2-games-in-my-backlog/
---

Sony's PlayStation 2 is a system I completely missed out on growing up. I played
some PS2 games at friends' houses, but I never had an opportunity to play the
big PS2 single-player games.

Since those days, I have experienced a few PlayStation 2 titles myself, both on
actual hardware and via emulation. But for the most part, I've still played very
few PS2 games. Some classic PS2 titles that aren't in my PS2 backlog include
Final Fantasy X, as I plan on playing an HD remaster version someday, and the
Kingdom Hearts games, as I own both the 1.5 and 2.5 HD Remix collections on PS3,
and have played a bit of both. Still though, there are quite a few PS2 games
that haven't seen an HD remaster on another system. Some of them are available
to download digitally and play on other Sony systems, but many PS2 games have
only had a release on the PS2 itself.

That said, here's my list of the Top 10 PS2 Games in my Backlog! Read on, and
discover how I plan to try (likely in vain) to catch up on all the PS2 games I
missed out on!

<!--more-->

## 10. {% include game.html game="Xenosaga Episode I Der Wille zur Macht" %}

Xenosaga is part of a JRPG trilogy on the PS2. The setting is pretty sci-fi, the
game takes place very far in the future during a time when humanity has left
earth. Battles are turn-based, but require inputting different button
combinations to utilize different attacks with various effects, so it sounds
like that should keep things interesting.

Rather than having random encounters, enemies can be seen in the environment and
avoided if you don't want to fight them. I much prefer this approach to enemy
encounters, as random encounters seem invoke a feeling of dread sooner or later
since they generally can't be avoided.

All those things combined together should make for a pretty great game, I hope!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Stella Deus The Gate of Eternity" %}

Stella Deus: The Gate of Eternity is a strategy RPG set in a fantasy world that
is being overrun by a deadly mist called the "Miasma."

There's a lengthy main story here as well as side quests, and as I said at the
beginning, this is all tied together by the strategic gameplay. The voice acting
has drawn some flak in some reviews for not being enthusiastic enough at times,
but the graphics have received plenty of praise for their colorful, hand-drawn
aesthetic.

As a Fire Emblem fan, I'm hoping Stella Deus: The Gate of Eternity proves to be
an enjoyable experience!

## 8. {% include game.html game="Shin Megami Tensei III Nocturne" %}

Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne puts you into the shoes of a Japanese high
school student who is turned into a half-demon when the apocalypse begins and
the world is transformed and filled with demons.

Having enjoyed the battle system of Persona series, which is a spin-off of Shin
Megami Tensei, I'd like to get into the Shin Megami Tensei series itself. The
battle mechanics should be relatively similar to what I've experienced in
Persona, at least in terms of needing to exploit enemy weaknesses while
protecting your own, and the facing enemies that can and will hit your
weaknesses at every opportunity.

I've heard that Nocturne is *brutally* difficult at times though, and that does
make me hesitate to pick it up a bit. Persona 3 FES was tough at times, but if
Nocturne is even rougher...yikes! Nocturne is also not as character-focused as
Persona I believe, it's more skewed toward dungeon exploration than character
development or plot I believe.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Shin Megami Tensei Digital Devil Saga" %}

Like Persona, Shin Megami Tensei: Digital Devil Saga is another spin-off of the
main Shin Megami Tensei series. My understanding of Digital Devil Saga is that
it is more focused on story than the main series, which is something I think I'd
enjoy. It's primarily that feature that draws me to Digital Devil Saga more than
Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne.

Rather than summoning Demons as the characters in Persona do, the characters you
play as in this game transform into Demons during battle. They get this ability
after their tribe is infected by a demon virus, drawing them into conflict with
the six other tribes of the Junkyard, the world they live in.

The premise definitely sounds interesting. Additionally, there's a direct sequel
as well, so if I finish Digital Devil Saga and am hungry for more, Digital Devil
Saga 2 is available!

## 6. {% include game.html game="Steambot Chronicles" %}

Steambot Chronicles takes place in a world where machines called Trotmobiles are
used heavily, for transportation and battling. I'm not sure what you battle in
this game to be honest, but I like the idea of customizing a Trotmobile, which
you do over the course of the game as you acquire more parts.

To make things more unique though, the other half of the gameplay is all about
playing music. Your character is a musician, and as you progress through the
game you can play more instruments which control differently, and you also join
a band eventually and gain more fame, I think.

The whole package sounds super unique to me, I have to try it someday!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Shadow Hearts" %}

The setting of Shadow Hearts sounds very interesting. Set in an alternate
reality in 1913, it brings monsters and shapeshifters into the mix in a
historical setting.

Gameplay-wise, it has turn-based battles but with the "Judgment Ring" mechanic
that has you do timed button presses during your attacks in battle in order to
increase their damage. I think systems like that keep the battles a little more
interesting than if they were straight turn based, as you have to be paying
attention and have some skill to hit the button presses at the right time. I've
always enjoyed the similar Action Command systems of Paper Mario for the same
reason.

I think the combination of setting and what I expect the atmosphere of this game
to be like are what have drawn it up to this spot in the list. It just has a
mysterious vibe, and I find myself intrigued by it! There's also two other
Shadow Hearts games that follow this one, but I've heard mixed things about the
third. The second one though, Shadow Hearts: Covenant should be solid if I play
Shadow Hearts and find myself wanting more.

## 4. {% include game.html game="Dark Cloud 2" %}

Dark Cloud 2, known as Dark Chronicle outside of North America, is a hack 'n'
slash RPG adventure. It also features some city-building in that you can build
things in the environment outside of the dungeons. Primarily though, you explore
procedurally-generated dungeons while collecting items.

The story has been criticized a bit, but the gameplay has received much praise,
and there's a ton to do. Dark Cloud 2 is available on the PS4 as well on
PlayStation Network. The PS4 version has trophy support as well, which is
something I always enjoy seeing brought to games that didn't originally have
trophies or achievements. I'll probably try to grab the PS4 version on a sale!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Tales of Legendia" %}

Tales is one of my favorite JRPG series. I've played quite a number of the
entries that received an English localization, but Legendia is one I've not yet
had a chance to play.

Legendia seems to be regarded as the dark horse of the series, it came out at a
weird time. Legendia features a battle system that takes place on a 2D plane,
similar to the first few Tales games. However, it came out after Tales of
Symphonia, which was notable for being the first Tales title to feature 3D
battles, in which characters could move across 3 axes instead of just 2. Tales
of the Abyss would release just a few months after Legendia in Japan, and went
back to 3D battles.

Having played only 3D Tales games, Legendia's 2D battles might be jarring for
me. However, I've heard enough praise for it that it's definitely secured a
place in my backlog.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Rogue Galaxy" %}

The concept here seems really cool. Basically, it's a JRPG with a real-time
battle system where you play as a space pirate and travel between different
planets on a spaceship. That brief summary alone pretty much has me sold!

Like many JRPGs, besides a fairly lengthy main story there's also a wealth of
side quests to pursue if you are so inclined. Another selling point of Rogue
Galaxy is that entering combat is seamless. There's no loading screen between
exploring and entering battle. While this concept seems like a good thing, I
can't help but be reminded of Tales of Zestiria when I hear this. From the sound
of it, the system in Zestiria might be similar to what's in Rogue Galaxy, but I
felt that in Zestiria it kind of forced level design to be bland since there
always had to be enough room in a level to accommodate battles. The end result in
Zestiria was a lot of large, box-ey areas that looked odd and felt very
artificial.

Hopefully that's not the case in Rogue Galaxy, because the promise of being a
space pirate and sailing through space is too good to pass up! Plus, it's
available on PlayStation Network for the PS4, and that version includes trophy
support!

## 1. {% include game.html game="Radiata Stories" %}

The art style of this game seems cool, I'm not really sure how to describe it.
Even the cover art makes me want to play this game, I just love the look.
Radiata Stories is an action RPG set in the fantasy world Radiata. You play as
Jack Russell, and begin the game in the central hub Radiata City, having just
joined the Radiata Knights.

Radiata Stories is notable in that you can recruit a *ton* of NPCs to fight in
your party. 175 NPCs are recruitable according to Wikipedia. That's incredible!
I mean, they're not all usable at once since you are limited to a party size of
3 in battles I think. Still though, there's so much flexibility there. I don't
even know if all of the potential recruits are useful but I know I would have
fun trying to recruit as many as possible.

Since it's an action RPG, combat takes place in real-time, though you can only
directly control Jack in battle. The other members of your party are controlled
by the game, but you can give them commands to influence their actions.

The game also features a day/night system, and NPCs have a schedule that they
adhere to day to day. There's also a whopping 300 characters in the game, all of
which are said to have unique backstories and personalities. That's a lofty
claim, and I imagine they're not all as equally fleshed out. However, this game
world just sounds more and more intriguing, and I absolutely have to check it
out for myself!
