---
author: bsinky
categories:
- List
date: 2019-09-01
description: The top 10 longest RPGs in my backlog as of September 2019!
games:
- Valkyria Chronicles 3 Unrecorded Chronicles
- Octopath Traveler
- God Eater 2 Rage Burst
- Suikoden III
- Phantasy Star Online Episode I II Plus
- The Last Remnant
- Xenoblade Chronicles 3D
- Dragon Quest VIII
- Xenoblade Chronicles 2
- Dragon Quest VII
image:
  credit: Anni Roenkae
  creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/photo-of-multicolored-illustration-2832382/
  feature: feature-longest-rpgs.jpg
  thumb: feature-longest-rpgs-thumb.jpg
layout: post
modified: 2019-09-01
tags:
- Top 10
- RPG
- Backlog
title: Top 10 Longest RPGs in my Backlog
---

How long are the longest games that I want to play someday?

I looked at all the games currently in my "Backlog" category on HowLongToBeat,
and found the top 10 longest RPGs based on "Main Story" times. I'm only
including games that HowLongToBeat lists as "Role-Playing" for the genre. This
is an easy way to filter out the life simulation games like Animal Crossing or
Story of Seasons, which actually have *really* long completion times on
HowLongToBeat. Those games can be even bigger time sinks than RPGs!

<!--more-->

One last note, since this list only includes games still on my backlog, there
are no Persona games here. Rest assured that if Persona 3, 4, and 5 were still
on my backlog, they would all appear on this list since the shortest of them is
still 70 hours long! The Persona games that are still on my backlog, Persona 1
and both Persona 2 games, aren't quite as long. Persona on the PSP is 32h 29m,
and Persona 2: Innocent Sin is around the same length. The second Persona 2
game, Eternal Punishment, is much closer to making the list, coming in at 53h
12m! But, a lot of games on my backlog are around that length too, so it would
face a lot of competition!

Anyway, on to the list!

### 10. {% include game.html game="Valkyria Chronicles 3 Unrecorded Chronicles" platform="" postfix="(58h 19m)" %}

A game released only in Japan, Valkyria Chronicles 3 clocks in at 58 hours and
19 minutes, putting at the bottom spot of this list. There is a fan-created
English translation patch available, which is why I added this to my backlog in
the first place. Since I haven't yet played the first or second game in this
series, the latter of which was also only released in Japan, it'll be a while
until I actually get around to playing Valkyria Chronicles 3. There's a chance I
never will if I end up hating the first game.

If I do get into the series though, doing Main + Extras in Valkyria Chronicles 3
would take about 90 hours, and 100% is 141 hours! Although there is currently
only a single reported time on HowLongToBeat for the 100% Completionist
category, so that time could actually vary quite a bit.

### 9. {% include game.html game="Octopath Traveler" platform="" postfix="(59h 19m)" %}

With its eight characters and their individual stories, completing all of them
in Octopath Traveler is a lengthy process. This is assuming you ignore optional
side quests. If you decided to tackle the side quests as well, you would be
looking at a time closer to 76 hours to finish the main story and sidequests,
and if you were aiming for 100% completion of absolutely everything in the game,
you would have to say goodbye to 102 hours of your life!

### 8. {% include game.html game="God Eater 2 Rage Burst" platform="" postfix="(60h 02m)" %}

I've actually played a bit of the PC port of the first God Eater game...and
dropped it. The games are often referred to as Hunting RPGs, a sub-genre that
the Monster Hunter series created and also belongs to. I've never played a
Monster Hunter game, but what I played of God Eater 1 I didn't enjoy all that
much. What got me interested was the anime aesthetic, and honestly I loved the
animated opening sequence. The story premise was interesting, and I liked the
characters too. You'd think that it was shaping up to be a series I enjoyed a
lot...except the gameplay was too repetitive and grindy for me.

You basically fight series of monsters across a ton of missions, and the
strategy to defeat a given type of monster doesn't really change between
missions. Some of them also have a *ton* of HP, or annoying patterns that I
never really fully figured out. Co-op seems to be a big part of this genre, and
I might have enjoyed it a lot more if I was fighting alongside friends instead
of just the AI companions. For now God Eater 2 is still on my backlog. Maybe
I'll enjoy the sequel a lot more than the first game.

There aren't that many reported times for God Eater 2 on HowLongToBeat. The
times that are reported for Main + Extras and 100% are *long* though. Main +
Extras is at 89 hours currently, while 100% is 128 hours!

### 7. {% include game.html game="Suikoden III" platform="" postfix="(61h 37m)" %}

Of the Suikoden series, Suikoden III definitely isn't first on my list of
Suikodens to play. I mean, first of all it's the third game, and even if I
wouldn't *have* to play the first and second games before it, I want to. Besides
that, I've heard that Suikoden III isn't that great, especially when compared to
the games it had to follow up. Those are just other people's opinions though,
and I still want to give it a try and form my own opinions on it, but it's
definitely shaped my expectations of this entry a bit.

There's actually not that much of a difference between completing the Main
Story, Main Story + Extras, and 100% completing Suikoden III. Main + Extras is
about 65 hours, while 100% is 73.

### 6. {% include game.html game="Phantasy Star Online Episode I II Plus" platform="" postfix="(61h 40m)" %}

I'm not entirely sure if it's possible to play this game online anymore. With
"Online" as part of the very title, clearly the online portion of this game was
once a significant part of the experience. There may be fan-run servers for it,
but I don't know if they support the GameCube version? Part of the reason I
picked this version of Phantasy Star Online is because of the split-screen co-op
this edition offers. I think when I play this game someday, I'll do so with a
friend by my side, as I have a feeling the content isn't really meant to be
enjoyed solo.

There's actually only Main Story and Main + Extras times reported on
HowLongToBeat here - not a single time exists for the 100% Completionist
category. Main + Extras sits at 86 hours as of this writing.

### 5. {% include game.html game="The Last Remnant" platform="" postfix="(62h 01m)" %}

The Last Remnant released first on Xbox 360 before releasing on PC shortly
after. A Remastered version was released for PS4 in 2018, and also for the
Switch in 2019. Roughly around the time of the Remastered version's release, the
PC version of The Last Remnant was de-listed on Steam, and can't be purchased
anymore. Good thing I've had it sitting in my Steam library since 2014!

The battle system in The Last Remnant seems pretty unique, and that's the big
draw for me. I don't know much about it, but I'm willing to give it a shot and
see if it's something I enjoy! Main + Extras is listed as 78 hours, while
Completionist is 147 hours.

### 4. {% include game.html game="Xenoblade Chronicles 3D" platform="" postfix="(63h 20m)" %}

Coming in at 4th place, with a Main Story time just 6 minutes less than the 3rd
game on this list, we have Xenoblade Chronicles 3D. As of this writing,
Xenoblade Chronicles 3D is
actually
[next up on my 3DS backlog]({% post_url 2019-04-17-top-10-3ds-games-in-my-backlog %}),
as I've finished all the games I had put above it. I'm certainly in for a
lengthy game! Main + Extras is listed as 92 hours, while Completionist is at 144
hours! I'm not sure how much extra content I'll pursue, but if I really enjoy
this one I guess I could enjoy it for up to 144 hours if I really wanted to!

### 3. {% include game.html game="Dragon Quest VIII" platform="" postfix="(63h 26m)" %}

Dragon Quest VIII is a game I *really* want to try, but I have just so many
other games that I also really want to try before it! I remember seeing an ad or
article for the original PS2 version as a kid, back when I only had Nintendo
consoles. It looked *so cool*, the art style blew me away, and it seemed like it
would be such an incredible adventure. It made quite an impression on me, but I
never had a way to play it. Now with the 3DS port, it shouldn't be too hard to
track down, and I have a system to play it on!

Main + Extras is 81 hours, while Completionist is 120 hours. There's certainly a
lot of content here if Dragon Quest VIII charms me enough to complete a bunch of
the optional quests!

### 2. {% include game.html game="Xenoblade Chronicles 2" platform="" postfix="(65h 10m)" %}

To those who have played Xenoblade Chronicles 2, it's no surprise to see it this
high on the list. Xenoblade Chronicles 2 is an *enormous* game by all accounts.
The main story alone is 65 hours. Main + Extras is 107 hours, and Completionist
is a whopping 251 hours! There's got to be some grinding or New Game+ stuff in
that Completionist time, because 251 hours is just an *incredible* number.

I don't think I'll get anywhere near the Completionist time for this game, but
I'm hoping I enjoy it enough to make it through the main story and some of the
optional content!

### 1. {% include game.html game="Dragon Quest VII" platform="" postfix="(73h 03m)" %}

Topping the list with its Main Story time of 73 hours is Dragon Quest VII.
Originally released on the PlayStation as "Dragon Warrior VII" in North America,
the seventh entry in the Dragon Quest series has always been a long game. This
entry is for the 2016 3DS remake, and believe it or not, the times on
HowLongToBeat for the original PlayStation version are all *even longer*.

The 3DS version has a time of 88 hours for Main + Extras and 121 hours for
Completionist.

The PlayStation version has a Main Story time of 106 hours. That's *just* to
complete the main story! Main + Extras is 133 hours, and Completionist is a
mind-blowing 272 hours!

I don't mind at all having shorter times for the 3DS version. I'm going to take
that as a sign that some tedious or dated mechanics have been updated for the
2016 release. Another thing that doubtlessly reduces the amount of required time
is the removal of random encounters. Like many RPGs of its era, the original
PlayStation Dragon Quest VII had random encounters every few steps. Much to my
delight, the 3DS version removes these and replaces them with visible enemies on
the overworld, making it possible to avoid battles when you really don't want to
battle.
