---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Game Boy Advance Games of my Childhood
author: bsinky
description: My personal list of the Top 10 Game Boy Advance Games of my Childhood
date: 2019-02-06
modified: 2019-02-06
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Game Boy Advance,nostalgia]
image:
    feature: feature-gameboyadvance.jpg
redirect_from: /top%2010/top-10-game-boy-advance-games-of-my-childhood/
---

Nintendo's Game Boy Advance, or simply GBA for short. In my mind, the GBA was
another incredible device in the Game Boy line. This small handheld provided me
with hours upon hours of entertainment during its era, and thanks to backwards
compatibility, I kept playing some of my favorite GBA games even after I got a
Nintendo DS.

What makes the GBA so remarkable? Its games, of course! Prepare yourself for a
wave of opinions that may shake you to your core, a list of the Top 10 Game Boy
Advance Games of my Childhood!

<!--more-->

## 10. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone

[![](https://i.imgur.com/DyRI1dNm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/DyRI1dN.jpg)
{: .image-right}

A fun little adventure game based on the book and movie of the same name, Harry
Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone was a game I enjoyed on my GBA as a kid. If I
replayed it now, I have a sinking suspicion I might find it more flawed. I mean,
the Metacritic score of the GBA version is a 64 at the time of this writing,
that's rather low. I've also grown a heavy sense of skepticism for licensed
games in general. But, at the time, all I knew was I loved Harry Potter, so of
course I had to play the licensed video game, right? And play it I did.

One thing I will give this game credit for, I always thought was rather cool
that you could lose the House Cup at the end of the game if you lost enough
House Points over the course of the game. That was an interesting twist to Harry
Potter story I knew and loved.

## 9. Yu-Gi-Oh! The Eternal Duelist Soul

[![](https://i.imgur.com/SEWXQcdm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/SEWXQcd.jpg)
{: .image-right}

This was a GBA game I never bought, instead a friend simply gave it to me. I
don't remember the circumstances, I guess they were just bored with Yu-Gi-Oh!
entirely by then, or maybe getting rid of their Game Boy Advance altogether?
Either way, when it came into my hands, I had never played Yu-Gi-Oh! in any
form; I'd never collected the cards, nor played the card game at all. I don't
even know if this is the best video game incarnation of the Yu-Gi-Oh! card game,
since it's still the only one I've played, but it had me hooked!

I loved collecting new cards in game, and constructing new decks. It gave me
some insight into why so many of my classmates were hooked on the Yu-Gi-Oh! card
game...it was just fun!

## 8. Kirby: Nightmare in Dreamland

[![](https://i.imgur.com/3KpeeObm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/3KpeeOb.jpg)
{: .image-right}

Kirby: Nightmare in Dreamland blew my mind with how good it looked on the GBA.
Seriously, the graphics in the game look excellent, even to this day I think
they hold up quite well.

Besides looking great, Nightmare in Dreamland was a blast to play! Like all
Kirby games, the premise is simple. You jump and fly through levels, swallowing
enemies to absorb their powers, and try to reach the exit door of the level. I
enjoyed this game so much as a kid, I remember blowing through this game really
quickly. It's really not a long game. However, I'm guessing my parents may have
regretted this purchase a little when I told them I had finished playing the new
game they just got after just a day or two!

I've replayed Nightmare in Dreamland since then, and I'd say the gameplay holds
up very well! It's just as fun to play through now as it was when I first played
it, and I'd say that's definitely the mark of a good game! The short length also
means that a single playthrough can be done quickly. It's something I could
easily accomplish during a free evening. Sometimes it's nice to have a game that
isn't a huge time commitment.

## 7. Final Fantasy I & II: Dawn of Souls

[![](https://i.imgur.com/X8DpNJNm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/X8DpNJN.jpg)
{: .image-right}

This was my first look at the main, numbered Final Fantasy series. Before this,
I'd only played spin-off games in the Final Fantasy series, but we'll cover
those later in this list.

Final Fantasy I & II charmed me pretty quickly. Honestly, just from hearing the
main menu music, that classic Final Fantasy Prelude, I was enchanted. These
weren't the first JRPGs or turn-based games I'd played, since I'd played Super
Mario RPG on the SNES prior, and Paper Mario on the N64. Despite having played
some JRPGs before, Final Fantasy was still a nice treat. The classic turn-based
combat, fantasy setting, and exploration, was all pretty magical!

## 6. Super Mario World: Super Mario Advance 2

[![](https://i.imgur.com/z5JmUldm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/z5JmUld.jpg)
{: .image-right}

Man, the title of this game is something! It's Super Mario World...but also has
the subtitle of Super Mario Advance 2. Most games would switch those parts
around, but not Nintendo! I digress.

This was how I first played Super Mario World! I never owned nor played it on
the SNES. For me Super Mario World was GBA experience, and what an experience it
was! I'm sure a lot of people have great memories of Super Mario World, but for
those who never played it, or even never heard of it, I'll summarize it briefly.
Super Mario World is possibly the greatest 2D Mario game ever made. I think it's
my personal favorite 2D Mario, at least. There's just so much there. Secret
levels, unlockable switches, Yoshi, platforming that never gets too frustrating,
and of course the Cape Feather, (in)famous for allowing Mario to fly through
some entire levels, once the player masters the flying mechanics! I think few
people would dispute that Super Mario World is a masterpiece of a game. For me,
it was definitely one of my favorite GBA games!

## 5. Pokémon Ruby Version

[![](https://i.imgur.com/e26xzxIm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/e26xzxI.jpg)
{: .image-right}

Honestly, who doesn't know what Pokémon is these days? The franchise is so
prolific, I bet even my grandmother, who hasn't played Pokémon (or any video
game!) a day in her life, would at least recognize Pikachu.

Prior to playing Pokémon Ruby, I'd played Red, Blue, Yellow, and Gold versions.
For some reason, my family owned all 3 titles of the first generation. I'm not
really sure how...but it was pretty awesome! By the time Ruby came out, I'd say I
was a pretty experienced Pokémon trainer. Generation 3 brought a ton of new
mechanics to the table though, enough to keep even a series veteran like myself
interested! Berries, Pokémon abilities, and probably a huge list of things I'm
not even remembering, were all introduced by the third generation of Pokémon.
But of course, one of the most impressive improvements were the graphics.
Pokémon had never looked so beautiful! Every was in full, brilliant color, and
it all looked fantastic! The sound was also much improved from what the old
games had been capable of.

I played a ton of Ruby, and yet...there's a Pokémon game I played on the GBA even
more...

## 4. Pokémon LeafGreen Version

[![](https://i.imgur.com/ieEnXm8m.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/ieEnXm8.jpg)
{: .image-right}

Pokémon LeafGreen version. With its companion, FireRed version, the two
re-imagined the original Pokémon games, Red and Blue, on the GBA, and they
couldn't have done it more perfectly. Red and Blue version also hold a special
place in my heart, from my even earlier childhood, but I don't think I've played
any Pokémon game, before or since, more than I played my copy of LeafGreen. I
still never caught ‘em all...but I think I got pretty darn close from trading
Pokémon from my copy of Ruby to LeafGreen, and transferring Pokémon from Pokémon
Colosseum and Pokémon XD on the GameCube, one of the few times I used my Game
Boy Advance/GameCube adapter cable.

Besides bringing me back to the Kanto I knew and loved from Red/Blue/Yellow,
LeafGreen also had a whole bunch of new post-game content that I loved as well!
LeafGreen and FireRed were awesome games, and I don't think it's entirely from
the nostalgia I feel for Red and Blue! Although honestly I'm sure that's a
contributing factor.

## 3. Metroid Fusion

[![](https://i.imgur.com/taGT5Wom.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/taGT5Wo.jpg)
{: .image-right}

This was the first ever 2D Metroid game I played. Ironically, I think I may have
played some Metroid Prime prior to getting this game, but I don't think I
finished it before then. That said, Metroid Fusion is also likely the first
Metroid game I ever completed.

I got this game as a birthday present one year, and I was hooked. The story, the
graphics, the sound, the atmosphere, everything in this game had me mesmerized
until the moment I finished it. Not only was this my first Metroid game, but I
believe it was my first Metroidvania as well, and the exploration, the
acquisition of new abilities allowing for further exploration...man, it was simply
awesome. Plus, this game also scared me so much at certain points. Even now,
there are some moments in it that I'm sure would make me nervous.

A brief side note, I never had Metroid: Zero Mission. That's a pretty killer
game too, but I never played it on the GBA.

Man, even remembering my time playing Metroid Fusion has me nostalgic for it...I
might have to re-play it sometime soon!

## 2. Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones

[![](https://i.imgur.com/MjhtYjUm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/MjhtYjU.jpg)
{: .image-right}

This was the only Fire Emblem game I owned on GBA. The "original" Fire Emblem is
a game I never had, though I have played it via emulation since. I say
"original" because as many Fire Emblem fans know, that game is actually the 7th
title to be released - the previous 6 were only released in Japan.

Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones was the second Fire Emblem game I ever played,
the first being Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance on the Nintendo GameCube. Sacred
Stones held so much fun on its 128Mbit cartridge. The graphics during battles
were pretty impressive to me, and I'd say they look good for the GBA, quality
sprite-work and all that. The story was always interesting too, following 2
siblings and allowing you to pick which one you wanted to be your "main
character" at a certain point, and the rest of the cast contained a number of
interesting characters as well. It's been a long time since I played it, but
from the memories I have, I bet it still holds up today.

A number of the systems were different from what I'd grown used to in Path of
Radiance. It's been a while since I've played both Sacred Stones and Path of
Radiance, but from what I remember, changing classes was different between them?
I think Sacred Stones allowed you to pick between 2 class options when ranking
up, whereas Path of Radiance did not. Both games had a Magic Triangle, similar
to the famed Weapons Triangle, but not the same Magic Triangle. Sacred Stones'
magic triangle had Anima, Light, and Dark magic, whereas Path of Radiance's
triangle just had Wind, Fire, and Lightning (of course, Path of Radiance also
had Light magic but it wasn't part of the magic triangle). Sacred Stones also
had monsters in it, something I've come to realize is sort of common for the
Fire Emblem series, but basically entirely absent from Path of Radiance.
Learning how the games were different made the experience even more fun, as I
had a few things to learn or get used to when switching to Sacred Stones from
Path of Radiance.

I think I knew Sacred Stones was an earlier game, so seeing how the series had
changed from Sacred Stones to Path of Radiance was the icing on the delicious
cake that is Fire Emblem: The Sacred Stones.

## 1. Final Fantasy Tactics Advance

[![](https://i.imgur.com/fU2JCorm.jpg)](https://i.imgur.com/fU2JCor.jpg)
{: .image-right}

I loved this game. My love for it cannot be understated. I LOVED this game. In
fact, I still do! Whatever flaws fans of the Final Fantasy Tactics spin-off
series may find in it, Final Fantasy Tactics Advance (FFTA) will always be one
of my favorite games.

I wish I remembered more details about when and how I got Final Fantasy Tactics
Advance. My copy was used, I remember that much. After getting it I remember
playing it immediately during the car ride. I'm not sure what got me interested
in this one in the first place. A Nintendo Power ad, maybe? Perhaps I saw an
isometric screenshot and instantly fell in love with the presentation and art
style? Also, I can't remember if I played this before or after Fire Emblem. If
it was before, then this game may have been my first real Tactical RPG, the game
that paved the way for me to enjoy Fire Emblem! No matter how I got it, so many
hours of my childhood were poured into this game. Grinding to master Double
Sword so that I could create a dual-wielding Paladin, trying my hardest to
master the Beastmaster class...with as much as I did in this game, I still feel
like I never did it all, and that's kind of an amazing thing, right? There are a
ton of possibilities for the units in FFTA.

The premise of the game is pretty simple. You play a character who's just moved
to a new town, so you don't really have friends yet. With the few people in town
you do know, you sit down with a mysterious book one night. Before you know it,
POOF, you and your friends get transported into the fantasy world of Ivalice.
Its story may seem clichéd now, but when I first played FFTA the whole
"transported into a game/book world" thing amazed me. It filled my imagination
with fantastical thoughts. I hadn't played a Final Fantasy game before this, so
I always loved how characters referenced "Final Fantasy" when reacting to some
of the creatures of Ivalice. FFTA truly holds an irreplaceable spot in my heart!
