---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Fan Translated Games in my Backlog
author: bsinky
description: "The top 10 Japanese games with English fan translations in my backlog!"
date: 2019-11-24
modified: 2019-11-24
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Translation]
image:
  feature: feature-top-10-fan-translations-backlog.jpg
  thumb: feature-top-10-fan-translations-backlog-thumb.jpg
  creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/black-portable-speaker-1044989/
  credit: Steve Johnson
---

Many of series I enjoy come from Japanese developers, and while localization
efforts of the companies involved have been very active in recent years, from
time to time they develop a game that remains in Japan, and never to see an
official English localization. Not all of the games on this list are from a
beloved Japanese franchise. Some are interesting, standalone titles. But in
either case, sometimes the only way to get an English translation of a game is
to do it yourself, and that's exactly what the people and teams mentioned in
this post did. Here are 10 games from my backlog that I can only play because
fans around the world took matters into their own hands, and translated them
themselves!

<!--more-->

My initial drafts of this list lacked variety, so I imposed a rule on myself:
only one game per series is allowed. Otherwise Shin Megami Tensei and Fire
Emblem would take up half the list! I did list some additional games as runners
up for some places in the list, choosing another game from the series with a
fan-made English translation that was a close 2nd for that place.

## 10. {% include game.html game="The Legend of Heroes Zero no Kiseki" platform="" %}

Along with this one is The Legend of Heroes: Ao no Kiseki, which is a sequel to
Zero no Kiseki. Both these games are part of the "Kiseki" or Trails series in
The Legend of Heroes franchise. They are the 4th and 5th games in the series,
taking place after the Trails in the Sky trilogy, and before the Trails of Cold
Steel games.
         
I don't see myself playing these games any time soon, since I'll most likely
play through the Trails in the Sky trilogy first...and that will take me a long
time! That's the main reason it's at the bottom of this list. That will probably
work out well actually, as The Geofront, the team of fans working on a Zero no
Kiseki translation, are still working on it. As of September 21, 2019, the
initial editing pass of the translated script has been completed! [You can keep
up with the progress of this patch here](https://geofront.esterior.net/). By the
time I'm ready to play it, I'm sure they will have a very polished translation
patch completed!

*Runner up for this slot:* The Legend of Heroes: Ao no Kiseki

## 9. {% include game.html game="Policenauts" platform="" %}

Policenauts is a pre-Metal Gear Solid Hideo Kojima work, written and directed by
him. That fact alone is probably enough to draw in a significant fanbase, but
the interesting premise and themes of Policenauts seem interesting in their own
right. The gameplay is point-and-click style, and follows Jonathan Ingram, an
astronaut with police training, after he is found drifting in space following an
accident, and learns that he's been in cryosleep for the last 28 years.
         
Policenauts is available on several platforms, including the original
PlayStation, and there is an English translation available for that version too.
However, the Sega Saturn version released later, and includes content cut from
the PlayStation version, as well as higher quality visuals. This sounds like a
great version to play, and thanks to the translation work of Marc Laidlaw and
others, the Saturn version is fully playable in English. [The Sega Saturn
English translation patch can be found here](http://policenauts.net/english/).

## 8. {% include game.html game="Valkyria Chronicles 3 Unrecorded Chronicles" platform="" %}

I enjoyed the first game so much, playing Valkyria Chronicles 3 at some point
down the road is inevitable! I can only assume it includes more of the
strategic, turn-based, wartime gameplay I loved in Valkyria Chronicles, and that
sounds great to me!

Thanks to the work of the Valkyria Chronicles 3 Translation Project team, this
entry in the series can be enjoyed by English-speaking people like myself! The
translation patch [can be found on the project website
here](https://vc3translationproject.wordpress.com/).

## 7. {% include game.html game="Shin Megami Tensei" platform="" %}

I really want to get into the mainline Shin Megami Tensei series, as I've
currently only ever played games from one of its spin-off series, Persona. I
don't plan on starting with Shin Megami Tensei though, I'll probably start the
series with either Shin Megami Tensei 3 or 4, and go back to the first game
sometime afterward.
         
Aeon Genesis worked on and released this patch, [which can be found on their
website here](http://agtp.romhack.net/project.php?id=smt). They have nothing but
praise for the game on the project page, which is very encouraging and also
makes me especially grateful that they dedicated their time to translating it! I
should note that there was an official English translation in 2014, which
resulted in Shin Megami Tensei for iOS being released. But it only runs on older
versions of iOS, do unless you have an outdated Apple device to run it on, or
downgrade your iOS version somehow, it's not a viable option.

*Runner up for this slot:* Shin Megami Tensei if...

## 6. {% include game.html game="Tales of Innocence" platform="" %}

I consider myself a fan of the Tales series, despite not having much experience
with its early 2D battle system days. I've known about the Japan-exclusive DS
Tales games for a while: Tales of Innocence and Tales of the Tempest. Tales of
the Tempest seems to have a bad reputation, and isn't considered to be very
good, so I'm avoiding that one. Tales of Innocence, on the other hand, has
favorable reviews, and I haven't heard anything awful about it! From what I've
seen, it looks like an impressive game for the DS. The battle system seems
reminiscent of Tales of Symphonia or Tales of the Abyss, at least in that it's a
3D battle system. Interestingly, Innocence received a remake for the PS Vita,
Tales of Innocence R. This version was also only released in Japan, and
unfortunately no English translation patch is underway for that version.

This patch was completed by the Romhacking Aerie and Absolute Zero Translations,
and can be [found on ROMHacking.net
here](https://www.romhacking.net/translations/1594/). The readme for the patch
includes some really interesting thoughts on the project from throughhim413 and
Kingcom, the translator and programmer on the project respectively, and I highly
recommend reading it!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Sol Trigger" platform="" %}

Sol Trigger is an excellent looking PSP JRPG, with a turn-based battle system
and an interesting aesthetic. All the character designs are really focused on
the colors black and purple, and that grabbed my attention right away. I don't
know much about this game, but I definitely want to give it a shot!

The English translation for this one isn't complete, and is at version 0.9, but
the last status update on the website was in 2017. From the sound of that
update, and with how much time has passed since then, it doesn't seem likely a
full 1.0 release will come to fruition. The team did translate the entire
script, but not all of it has been inserted into the game. Still though, I'm
looking forward to enjoying the fruits of the translation team's labor! The [Sol
Trigger translation patch can be found
here](https://soltriggerenglish.wordpress.com/).

## 4. {% include game.html game="Mother 3" platform="" %}

Since I had such a great time playing Earthbound, it only makes sense I would
have a strong desire to play the next game in the series: Mother 3. What more is
there to say about Mother 3 at this point? The game's lack of an official
English localization is infamous among fans of the series. While he was
president of Nintendo of America, Reggie Fils-Aime was asked when Mother 3 would
be localized so many times, it became some thing of a meme. Now that he's no
longer working for Nintendo of America, he's said that the decision to localize
Mother 3 is thankfully one that he's no longer a part of.
         
Anyway, as a result of the Do It Yourself Devotion Project and the work of
Tomato, Gideon Zhi, demi, and Reidman, a complete English translation exists,
and [can be found here](http://mother3.fobby.net/) along with many other Mother
and Mother 3 resources!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Fire Emblem The Binding Blade" platform="" %}

The first Fire Emblem to be released for a handheld, and the game released prior
to the series being introduced to the west, Fire Emblem: The Binding Blade
actually takes place *after* the following game in the series. The game that the
west got as simply "Fire Emblem" is a prequel to The Binding Blade.
         
This English patch is courtesy of Dark Twilkitri Net Translation Division and
Eaichu, and [can be found here on
ROMHacking.net](https://www.romhacking.net/translations/854/).

*Runner up for this slot:* Fire Emblem: New Mystery of the Emblem (DS)

## 2. {% include game.html game="Grand Knights History" platform="" %}

This Vanillaware game made the top of my [Top 10 PSP Games in my Backlog]({%
post_url 2019-02-28-top-10-psp-games-in-my-backlog %}) post, so clearly I'm
really curious about it. The art reminds me heavily of Odin Sphere, the only
other Vanillaware game I've played, and that really makes me want to give Grand
Knights History a shot.

Thanks to dedicated fans, Grand Knights History is fully playable in English!
[You can download the patch from this GBATemp
thread](https://gbatemp.net/threads/grand-knights-history-english-patch-alpha-looking-for-help.365958/).

## 1. {% include game.html game="Custom Robo 1" platform="" %}

Custom Robo (2004) on the GameCube is one of my favorite GameCube games. I
played it a ton back in the day. When I learned that it was actually the 4th
Custom Robo game, I was curious to go back and try the first game in the series,
to see how it had evolved over time. The first 2 Custom Robo games are for the
N64, but both only released in Japan.

When I first checked for an English translation patch years ago, it didn't
exist, and there were no groups working on one either. That's why I was
surprised when I checked again this year, and learned that a patch had been
released back in 2017! The patch can be found [here on
ROMHacking.net](https://www.romhacking.net/translations/3237/), courtesy of the
Star Trinket group, whose site [can be found
here](https://www.startrinket.com/). I haven't tried any of their translations
yet, but I really love the attention they seem to be giving the N64. For
whatever reason, N64 translation patches seem really rare, despite there being a
number of Japan-only N64 games, like Custom Robo, so it's inspiring to see a
team of fans like Star Trinket give their time and energy to translating them.
I'm really looking forward to more of the robo battles and customization I loved
in the GameCube title!
