---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Anticipated 2021 Releases
author: bsinky
description: "The 10 games slated for a 2021 release that I am most excited about."
date: 2020-12-11
modified: 2020-12-11
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10]
image:
  feature: feature-2021hype.jpg
  thumb: feature-2021hype-thumb.jpg
  creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/yellow-bokeh-photo-949587/
  credit: rovenimages.com
games:
- Rune Factory 5
- Scott Pilgrim vs the World The Game Complete Edition
- Story of Seasons Pioneers of Olive Town
- GhostWire Tokyo
- Shin Megami Tensei Nocturne HD Remaster
- Shin Megami Tensei V
- NEO The World Ends with You
- Deathloop
- Hogwarts Legacy
- Persona 5 Strikers
---

As 2021 progresses, we'll be getting further into the ninth generation of video
game consoles, with a lot of releases I'm really excited for scheduled to
release during the course of the year. There are still a number of cool games
scheduled to release on 8th generation systems in 2021 though, and I'm even more
excited for some of those as I already have systems to play them on. Here are
the 10 2021 games I'm most looking forward to!

<!--more-->

One thing to note, I only included games in this list that have confirmed 2021
release dates or release windows. Even games that have a vague "2021" release
are fair game. This rule means that some future games I'm really looking forward
to, like Tales of Arise or Scarlet Nexus, are excluded from the list because
they don't have a confirmed 2021 release window. Tales of Arise has been delayed
to an unspecified date, while Scarlet Nexus only shows "Release Date Coming
Soon" on its official site. Both *could* end up releasing in 2021, but since
it's not certain I couldn't include them in this list.

With that out of the way, time for the list!

## 10. {% include game.html game="Rune Factory 5" platform="" %}

I really enjoyed my time with Rune Factory 4 Special, despite not getting all
the way through all the story arcs. The hack 'n' slash combat and farming
mechanics were really fun though, so I'm definitely excited for the next
installment! A Rune Factory game built from the ground up for the Switch with HD,
3D graphics sounds awesome.

## 9. {% include game.html game="Scott Pilgrim vs the World The Game Complete Edition" platform="" %}

The original Scott Pilgrim vs. the World: The Game was awesome on Xbox 360. With
great spritework and an awesome soundtrack by chiptune band Anamanaguchi, it was
an awesome beat 'em up with a retro feel. Plus, there are so many references to
the comic book source material, and as a Scott Pilgrim fan this made the game
even better! Unfortunately, it was a digital only release, and it was taken down
from all digital stores years ago. I still have my Xbox with the game installed,
but I haven't tried turning it on in a long time. I'm really looking forward to
having this game on another platform, and I *really* hope there's a physical
edition in some form this time around!

I'm not sure what platform I'll get this one on. It's coming to PC, Xbox One,
PS4, and Nintendo Switch, so I have several options. My choice will probably
depend on which (if any) physical editions are available.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Story of Seasons Pioneers of Olive Town" platform="" %}

When this new Story of Seasons game was announced during a Nintendo Direct Mini,
I was pretty surprised. I didn't even know a new game was in development, so to
hear that it would be releasing just 5 months after it was revealed was a shock!

From what I saw in the reveal trailer, it seems like there will be a lot more
player freedom in building up your farm exactly the way you want. In that
regard, it's really cool to see Story of Seasons take inspiration from other
simulation games like Stardew Valley, because Story of Seasons was definitely an
inspiration for Stardew Valley. We've come full circle! Although, Harvest Moon:
Magical Melody already let you build your own farm buildings, so the new
features could be seen as an expansion of those mechanics. Regardless, I'm
looking forward to more relaxing and cute farming!

## 7. {% include game.html game="GhostWire Tokyo" platform="" %}

My understanding of GhostWire: Tokyo's gameplay is that you explore Tokyo at
night and fight supernatural enemies with magical martial arts skills. Every
part of that sounds awesome! I've said it before on this blog, but the gameplay
trailer for this game during the PS5 Reveal livestream always gets me so hyped.

## 6. {% include game.html game="Shin Megami Tensei Nocturne HD Remaster" platform="" %}

Having never played the PS2 original, but always hearing great things about it
online from those who have, I was excited to hear it was getting an HD remaster
and releasing in the West in 2021. Unfortunately, its launch in Asia suffers
from some significant technical problems. I'm really hopeful that these are
patched by the time of the Western release, because I'd really love to play it.

## 5. {% include game.html game="Shin Megami Tensei V" platform="" %}

As of this writing, I still haven't played a mainline Shin Megami Tensei game. I
really love the battle mechanics and demon designs of Persona though, and since
those are based on the groundwork laid by Shin Megami Tensei, I'm hoping the
series really clicks with me. That said, a new entry releasing in 2021 in a
series I've been curious about for a while definitely has me interested!

## 4. {% include game.html game="NEO The World Ends with You" platform="" %}

I only recently played The World Ends with You, and I loved the story, visuals,
music, and unique battle mechanics. Controlling the action on both screens of
the DS at once during battle was tough, but definitely a memorable experience.
Since the original game released in 2008, I didn't expect a sequel to be
announced since it had already been over a decade. Long story short, the
announcement of a brand new game in the series, NEO: The World Ends with You,
blew my mind. From the gameplay trailer, it looks like a very promising game,
and I hope it stacks up to the original. It's a high bar, but I'm cautiously
optimistic about this one!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Deathloop" platform="" %}

Arkane's Dishonored series is one of my favorite game series, so if any of
Deathloop's design or gameplay builds upon that, I'll probably really enjoy it.
I have a number of questions about some of the gameplay specifics, but from what
I've seen in the trailers, it looks like there will be a number of powers,
weapons, and tools at your disposal to take out enemies. In that regard, it
seems like it's building upon the gameplay of the Dishonored series, and that
seems great!

One thing I'm hesitant about is the multiplayer component that seems to be built
into the campaign, wherein another player (or the AI if you want a true
single-player experience) controls a rival assassin whose only target is you.
I'm not big on multiplayer with random opponents, but the system in Deathloop
sounds like a lot of design thought has been put into it, and if one of my
friends had this game as well it this sort of multiplayer could be a lot of fun.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Hogwarts Legacy" platform="" %}

At the time of writing, there's still only a vague 2021 release year given for
this open world action RPG. But that means it's still fair game for this list!

If there's one game on this list that's more likely than any other to prompt
PatronusLight and I to buy a ninth generation console, it's Hogwarts Legacy.
It's releasing on PC as well, but I have my doubts that my 6-year old PC would
be able to run it at decent settings. I'll probably updgrade my PC or build a
new one eventually, but since it's running fine as-is I'm in no hurry to upgrade
any of the components.

Anyway, PatronusLight and I have dreamt of an open world game set in the
Wizarding World for a long time. There's a chance that Hogwarts Legacy won't
quite live up to our expectations, but I'm definitely looking forward to finding
out. It might still be a really cool game even if it's not everything we hoped
it would be, and that's fine.

## 1. {% include game.html game="Persona 5 Scramble The Phantom Strikers" platform="" %}

As we waited for a Western release announcement for this hack 'n' slash Persona
5 sequel, I asked PatronusLight numerous times, "when will they announce P5S's
Western release?" Not that she had any more of an idea when that would be than I
did! Well, after months of asking her, an official release announcement trailer
leaked online, and a few days later on December 8th, 2020, Atlus confirmed a
Western release date of February 23, 2021. What was more surprising is that they
also confirmed that it would be releasing on Steam at the same time!

PatronusLight and I are both huge Persona 5 fans, and I've already pre-ordered
this one for PS4. I wish there was some sort of special edition for PS4, but the
only special edition I saw was for the Switch version, which I wanted to avoid
because apparently the loading times in that version are *really* long.
  
