---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Most Underrated Games
author: bsinky
description: "My personal list of the top 10 most underrated games I've played."
date: 2020-04-18
modified: 2020-04-18
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10]
image:
    feature: feature-underrated.jpg
    thumb: feature-underrated-thumb.jpg
games:
- Owlboy
- Tokyo Mirage Sessions â™¯FE Encore
- Army of Two The 40th Day
- Soulbringer
- Stranglehold
- Nox
- Majesty The Fantasy Kingdom Sim
- Mischief Makers
- Custom Robo
- Future Tactics The Uprising
---

The definition of what makes a game "underrated" probably differs from person to
person. The criteria I had in mind when I made this list is very broad: any game
that I feel more people should play and/or more people should be talking about.
It's definitely an *incredibly* subjective topic, but here's my list of the **Top
10 Most Underrated Games**!

<!--more-->

Just putting a disclaimer up front, this list only consists of games that I've
played. I'm sure there are *tons* of very underrated games that I've never
played, or maybe never even heard of. But since I haven't played them, I can't
put them on this list since I don't have firsthand opinions on them.

## 10. {% include game.html game="Owlboy" platform="" %}

Owlboy has to rank last on this list because it's probably the game that
received the most recognition of any of these. It was nominated for several
awards, so it clearly garnered a significant amount of attention in the indie
space. Still though, I don't see many people talking about it, which is a shame
because it's such a beautiful game! Excellent pixel art visuals, music, and
awesome action-platformer gameplay, coupled with an emotional story and
wonderful characters...there are just so many things to love about Owlboy!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Tokyo Mirage Sessions FE Encore" platform="" %}

This game is maybe the least or second least obscure on this list. I'm sure it's
still on many peoples' minds since it came out on Switch so recently. I still
see a number of people talking about it on Twitter, and that makes me happy
because it really deserves some more attention!

It's a really cool game if you enjoy the idol-focused plot. The dungeon
crawling gameplay is top notch, as is the battle system. Its Session Attack
system was easy to get into, and only got better as the game went on and you
could get even larger combos with it.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Army of Two The 40th Day" platform="" %}

Army of Two: The 40th Day is a third-person cover shooter with awesome co-op
gameplay. You can play it in single-player, but it's much better with a friend
in split-screen couch co-op. One of my favorite features is the gun
customization system. It's not the first or only game to implement such a
feature, but it still might be my favorite game to do so. Something about the
customization interface and the parts available just works so well. There's
something special to be said about customizing your gun to have a knife bayonet
on the front, and plating it in solid gold. On top of that, the aggro system is
really interesting too, where one player can draw enemy fire by blind-firing
behind cover, and the other can use this distraction to get the drop on your
enemies. Unfortunately, not only do I never hear anyone talk about this game
anymore, but the series seems to have died.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Stranglehold" platform="" %}

I admit, I had completely forgotten about Stranglehold. It's a third-person
shooter that heavily utilizes slow motion "bullet time." When I first played it,
I thought this was a wholly unique mechanic, but I've since learned that the Max
Payne series was known for this years before Stranglehold came out. Anyway,
apparently this game is a sequel to John Woo's 1992 film "Hard Boiled." I've
still never seen that movie, so I didn't know the characters featured in this
game at all going into it and that probably made the plot harder to follow.
Maybe that's why I don't remember the story at all. The slow-motion shooting
mechanics definitely left a lasting impression though, because they were the
first thing I remembered about this game!

## 6. {% include game.html game="Nox" platform="" %}

Nox is an action RPG, and is probably easily labelled a Diablo clone. This might
be true, but what's sort of mind-blowing is that Nox actually released a few
months *before* Diablo 2. Nox very well could have still drawn inspiration from
the original Diablo, but anyone trying to accuse it of ripping off Diablo 2 is
sorely mistaken!

Anyway, release date and Diablo comparisons aside, I was absolutely spellbound
by Nox as a kid. Its fog of war vision system is very distinctive in a game of
its type, and really helps shapes the game in some cool ways. It also has 3
different classes to choose from, and your choice affects the route you'll take
through the early game. Each class also offers a unique play style, with warrior
being a straightforward but enjoyable melee class, wizard offering access to a
deep spell system, and conjurer allowing you to befriend and summon monster
allies. I was always fond of conjurer myself, but all 3 classes were fun to play
as. The presentation in this game is excellent. The pre-rendered 3D characters
and environments still look great in my opinion. Nox is just a really fun,
polished game that I never see mentioned in gaming dicussions, and that's a real
shame!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Soulbringer" platform="" %}

Admittedly, Soulbringer is probably the hardest game on this list to go back to.
The early 3D polygons will be off-putting for many, and the controls might be as
well. If you can look past its flaws and dated mechanics however, Soulbringer
has a lot to offer. It's an RPG with real-time combat, but the flow of this
combat is pretty unique. Your character's attacks with a weapon and even magic
takes times to prepare and execute, and can't be interrupted once initiated.
This makes the timing and flow of battle interesting, and you'll need to get a
good grasp on the timing of each action to learn to efficiently dispatch your
enemies.

Aside from the interesting combat, the lore of Soulbringer always interested me
too. It's full of parallel worlds, forgotten magic, and ancient demons. All the
makings of an interesting fantasy world, right? That's what I always thought at
least, but sadly the game didn't do well upon release and has been largely
forgotten nowadays.

## 4. {% include game.html game="Mischief Makers" platform="" %}

I'm not sure what drew me to Mischief Makers as a kid, but I'm really glad I
found it! It's a 2.5D platformer with some action elements, and a whole lot of
unique charm. You play as the robot Marina as she pursues her kidnapped creator
on Planet Clancer. As a platformer, there's obviously jumping involved on her
quest, but one of the unique elements Mischief Makers adds to the formula is
shaking. Marina can grab and shake many objects, including NPCs and enemies.
Grabbing and shaking these things is the key to moving forward, and often the
key to finding secrets too. Sadly, Mischief Makers only ever saw a release on
N64. It was never ported to another platform or re-released, which is a real
shame because it's a pretty unique experience.

*Shake, shake!*

Fans of Mischief Makers will get it.

## 3. {% include game.html game="Majesty The Fantasy Kingdom Sim" platform="" %}

Majesty is a simulation game focused on building and developing a kingdom in a
high fantasy world. The player's role is that of the monarch, and you run a
kingdom but don't control any of your citizens or heroes directly. The closest
you come to direct control is placing build orders for various structures, which
causes peasants to head to them to begin construction. Peasants are the least
remarkable of your subjects though. The real stars are the heroes. Instead of
directly controlling your heroes, you motivate them by offering bounties for
exploration and destroying enemies or enemy structures. Hero classes vary in
behavior. Some have a natural propensity for exploration and less motivation for
battle, and for others it's the opposite. Some are motivated purely by greed.
This makes for a really unique game. It even has an HD edition available on
Steam!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Future Tactics The Uprising" platform="" %}

I never hear anyone even mention this game! It's a turn-based tactical shooter
with destructible terrain and a jammin' OST composed by Tim Follin. Combat
requires some strategy and skill, as you'll need to time your button presses
correctly to aim your shots where you want them and hit with the most power.

Even though it released on GameCube, PS2, Xbox, and even PC in Europe, it seems
like Future Tactics is a frequently overlooked game the era. I definitely
recommend giving it a shot if you can though!

## 1. {% include game.html game="Custom Robo" platform="" %}

Custom Robo is a game where you customize tiny robots called "robos," and pilot
them against other robos in battle. It's a simple but accurate description for a
game I absolutely love. I love the plot, with its twists that blew my mind when
I first played the game as a kid. The characters are endearing, and though none
of the game is voiced the text advances with Animal Crossing-esque "voice" sound
effects that differ from character to character, sort of giving them distinct
voices. The robo battles are wonderful as well. You can customize your robot
with many different parts for different situations. The "Body," which
essentially changes your robo's model, especially changes the feel of combat, as
different robos have different specialties.

Unfortunately, the Custom Robo series hasn't seen a new game in over 10 years.
The last entry, Custom Robo Arena for Nintendo DS, was released in 2007, and the
series has been dormant since then. The GameCube game was actually the 4th in
the series, and the previous 3 games never released outside of Japan. It's a sad
reality that the series would wither away so soon after it made its
international debut.
