---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Surprising PC Ports
author: bsinky
description: "The top 10 PC ports whose very existence surprises me!"
date: 2020-06-20
modified: 2020-06-20
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,PC]
image:
    feature: feature-pc-port.jpg
    thumb: feature-pc-port-thumb.jpg
    credit: Oleg Magni
    creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/white-sky-1040473/ 
games:
- Dragon Quest XI Echoes of an Elusive Age
- Sonic CD
- Doom 64
- Tales of Symphonia
- Valkyria Chronicles
- Octopath Traveler
- Sunset Overdrive
- Halo The Master Chief Collection
- Horizon Zero Dawn
- Persona 4 Golden
---

Rumors of Persona 4 Golden coming to Steam *really* surprised me. Never in a
million years did I imagine a mainline Persona game would come to a
non-PlayStation platform, let alone PC where modding runs rampant. I had also
heard several rumors that Atlus had some kind of agreement with Sony that
Persona would remain a PlayStation exclusive. Well, Persona 4 Golden has
officially come to PC, and all my ideas about Persona's PlayStation exclusivity
have been turned upside down. The whole ordeal got me thinking: what other
surprising games have been or are currently being ported to PC?

<!--more-->

A trend you'll see in the games on this list is that most were primarily
associated with a specific console. Console exclusives can often be system
sellers, getting people to buy a console they might otherwise have little
interest in. I bought a PS4 just to play Until Dawn, and I'm sure many others
have similar stories for different games and systems! Also, whether or not these
are *good* PC ports remains to be seen for many of them.

Note that the listed release dates are from when the game initially released on PC!

## 10. {% include game.html game="Dragon Quest XI Echoes of an Elusive Age" %}

Dragon Quest XI launched in Japan on July 29, 2017 for Nintendo 3DS and
PlayStation 4. The 3DS version wouldn't be released internationally, but when
the game was released outside of Japan it wasn't just the PS4 version. The PC
version launched that day too! The only other time a mainline Dragon Quest game
had come to PC was with the Japan-exclusive MMORPG Dragon Quest X, so seeing
DQXI come to PC was a nice surprise.
 
## 9. {% include game.html game="Sonic CD PC" %}

I think the most surprising thing about this PC port is that is was ported to PC
only a few years after the game's release on the Sega CD. My guess is that the
install base for the Sega CD add-on was so well below what Sega expected that
they quickly scrambled to get Sonic CD on *some* other platform to recoup some
losses. At least when it came out Sonic CD on PC was still distributed on
CD-ROMs. These days its name looks quaint when you see it on digital
distribution platforms like Steam.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Doom 64" %}
 
The original Doom is known for being ported to *everything* thanks to the code
being released as open source and id Software giving fans their blessing to make
it run on whatever platforms it possibly can. Doom 64 did not get the same
treatment, and for 23 years was only available on the console that shared half
its name: Nintendo 64. But in 2020, a remastered port released for Switch, PS4,
Xbox One, and PC.

With the success of Doom (2016), it makes sense to release more Doom games, and
ports like this one are likely easier to put out than wholly new games.
Honestly, the PC port isn't *really* the surprising part here. What surprises me
most is that the ports to modern platforms exist at all. But I'm glad that they
do!
 
## 7. {% include game.html game="Tales of Symphonia PC" %}

Tales of Symphonia was no stranger to ports before coming to PC. After its
initial GameCube release, it saw a Japan-exclusive PS2 port, and a PS3 port in
the form of Tales of Symphonia Chronicles. Despite those ports, I was still
super surprised to see what was at the time a 13 year old Tales game receive a
PC port in 2016. I think the most surprising thing about this is that it's still
the only older Tales game to be released on Steam. When the port was announced,
I kind of thought it might be followed by other older games in the series coming
to PC as well, but that hasn't happened.

Honestly, I haven't tried playing through it on PC but I've heard it was a
*rough* port. Visually and technically, it was a bit of a mess at launch. While
the experience was cleaned up considerably both through official patches and
fan-made tweaks, I'm still not sure how well the PC port plays today.

## 6. {% include game.html game="Valkyria Chronicles" %}

It was a PS3 exclusive when it released in 2008, and Valkyria Chronicles would
remain that way for 6 years until it came to PC in 2014. It's now available on
both PS4 and Nintendo Switch as well, but for almost 2 years between the PC
port's release and the PS4 release, the only way to play it was either in its
original form on PS3, or on PC.

I had no issues whatsoever with this port. It's the way I played it for the
first time, and I can easily recommend this version!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Octopath Traveler PC" %}

Originally a Nintendo Switch exclusive, Octopath Traveler received considerable
attention when it was announced due to its unique visuals and classic RPG
gameplay. With the popularity of the Switch I assumed it would sell just fine
and Square Enix wouldn't release any other ports. It definitely sold well on
Switch, [selling over 1 million
copies](https://www.eurogamer.net/articles/2018-08-03-octopath-traveller-sells-1-million-units-worldwide)
just a few months after release, but that didn't stop Square Enix from porting
it to PC!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Sunset Overdrive" %}

This is the only game I can think of that launched as a true Xbox One exclusive.
I'm sure there are others that I'm just not aware of, but it seems like most
games that launched on Xbox One were also on PS4 and/or PC as well, or released
on those platforms after a few months of console exclusivity. After 4 years of
remaining exclusive to Xbox One, Sunset Overdrive released on PC, albeit without
the multiplayer component featured in the Xbox One version.

Insomniac Games developed the original game, and Blind Squirrel Games handled
the PC port. Judging from the positive reviews on Steam, it seems like the PC
port is probably pretty solid!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Halo The Master Chief Collection" %}

The listed release date is a bit misleading. That was the date Halo: Reach
released on Steam as the first available part of The Master Chief Collection.
It's being released in parts in order of when the games take place
chronologically. Reach was first, with Halo and Halo 2 becoming available since
then.

I spent a lot of time playing Halo: Reach on Xbox 360, so this port has been a
huge nostalgia trip for me so far! Halo is a series I've always associated with
Xbox, even though the first two titles released on PC not long after they
launched on Xbox. Anyway, this is a good PC port in my experience!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Horizon Zero Dawn PC" %}
 
Horizon Zero Dawn developer Guerrilla is a subsidiary of Sony, so that alone
makes this PC port interesting. For years, Guerrilla's games were developed
exclusively for Sony platforms. Their successful Killzone series saw releases on
every PlayStation home console from PS2 to PS4, and even a PlayStation Portable
title. Horizon Zero Dawn, their first new IP since Killzone, was no exception to
this PlayStation-exclusivity, and released as a PS4 exclusive. I expected it to
remain that way forever. Long story short, it didn't, and I was shocked when the
PC port was announced!

The PC port is unreleased as of this writing, but I'm hopeful that it has a
successful launch, and paves the way for future games developed by subsidiaries
of Sony to release on PC as well!

## 1. {% include game.html game="Persona 4 Golden PC" %}
 
I still can't believe this port really happened. As I said at the beginning of
the article, I never thought Atlus would bring a mainline Persona game to
something other than a PlayStation system, but they proved me wrong!

Persona 4 Golden seems to have had a very successful launch on Steam, so I'm
hopeful that we see other Atlus games ported to PC in the future too. Who knows,
maybe a future entry in the Persona series will have a cross-platform launch?
Even if that never happens, I'm now hopeful that Atlus will bring more of their
back catalog to PC in the years to come, allowing more people to experience
their games.

