---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Games in my Steam Backlog (2020)
author: bsinky
description: "A list of the top 10 games in my Steam backlog as of May 2020!"
date: 2020-05-14
modified: 2020-05-31
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Steam,Backlog]
image:
    feature: feature-steam-2020.jpg
    thumb: feature-steam-2020-thumb.jpg
    credit: Curioso Photography
    creditlink: "https://www.pexels.com/photo/abstract-art-canvas-colors-288099/"
games:
- The Legend of Heroes Trails in the Sky
- Battle Chasers Nightwar
- Yakuza 0
- Blasphemous
- Zero Escape The Nonary Games
- A Hat in Time
- Forgotton Anne
- Resident Evil 4
- Beyond Good & Evil
- Danganronpa 2 Goodbye Despair
---

A little over a year ago, I made my first "[Top 10 Games in my Steam Backlog](%{
post_url 2019-05-04-top-10-games-in-my-steam-backlog-may-2019 %})" list, and I'm
proud to say I've made my way through that list quite successfully! My overall
Steam backlog is still *massive*, and stands at 794 games as of this writing,
but the important thing is that I've managed to prioritize it a bit and play
some great games in the process. This list is another effort to prioritize the
games I'm most excited to try in my Steam library!

<!--more-->

Like with the previous Steam backlog list, you'll see a few ports of older games
here. I still love when games get PC ports, because it's just such a flexible
platform thanks to Steam's streaming features. I can stream games to my phone
with the Steam Link app, or utilize the Steam Link TV box to stream games to my
TV. It might not allow for playing games on the go like the Switch, but it's
super convenient otherwise!

One last note, listed release dates are for the Steam versions of these games,
not their original release. Now, on with the list!

## 10. {% include game.html game="The Legend of Heroes Trails in the Sky" %}

The Legend of Heroes: Trails in the Sky is part of the long-running Falcom RPG
series, The Legend of Heroes. It's the beginning of the "Trails" sub-series,
which are games that all take place during roughly the same time period in the
in-game universe, give or take a few years. The Trails in the Sky arc is a
trilogy of three games, and this is the first game in that trilogy.

The only reason Trails in the Sky is at the bottom of this list is because I
think once I play this game, I'll probably want to marathon through the rest of
the trilogy! With that in mind, I'm putting it here, so that if I do start a
Trails in the Sky marathon at this point, I'll still feel accomplished in
tackling the backlog since I'll have checked so many other games off prior to
these. I'm looking forward to getting to know a new cast of characters here, and
probably getting more insight into events that were referenced in Trails of Cold
Steel 1 and 2!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Battle Chasers Nightwar" %}

I never knew about it before discovering this game, but Battle Chasers is a
comic book series from the 90s. As of this writing, the most recent issue was
published in September 2001. One of the creators of the comic book series go
into video game development after that, and 16 years later Battle Chasers:
Nightwar released. Not that it was in development all that time, it's just
interesting to read about the 16 year gap in the franchise.

Battle Chasers: Nightwar draws inspiration from classic console RPGs. I imagine
the developers mean SNES-era RPGs when they say this, but wherever their
inspiration came from, the result is an RPG with turn-based battles and dungeon
crawling. The dungeons are randomly generated, and contain treasures, puzzles,
and traps. I'm most curious about the battle system. Turn-based battles always
sound interesting to me!

## 8. {% include game.html game="Yakuza 0" %}

The Yakuza series is known for open world action-adventure/beat 'em up gameplay.
Yakuza 0 is the sixth game developed in the series, and as the number in its
title maybe suggest, is a prequel to the first game. I've never played a Yakuza
title before, but this prequel should be a reasonable entrypoint into the series
since it doesn't build upon any prior events in the narrative. I don't know much
about the plot of the Yakuza series, but the action-oriented gameplay in an open
world Tokyo intrigues me. I'm looking forward to giving the series a try!

## 7. {% include game.html game="Blasphemous" %}

Blasphemous is a 2D Metroidvania, and that's all I really needed to hear to be
sold on this game. The the hack 'n' slash combat, it probably has more in common
with Castlevania than Metroid. From the title, to boss design, and even the
equipable Rosary Bead power-ups, there's definitely a lot of inspiration pulled
from real world religion, particularly Christian iconography. The bosses and
gorey combat from the screenshots on the Steam page look pretty intense, and I'm
not entirely sure I'll be a fan of that part of the game, but I'm definitely
looking forward to the non-linear exploration!

## 6. {% include game.html game="Zero Escape The Nonary Games" %}

This is a collection of two visual novels developed by Spike Chunsoft: "Nine
Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors (999)," originally for the DS, and its sequel,
"Virtue's Last Reward," originally for 3DS and PS Vita. Both are part of the
Zero Escape series.

The premise of these games is simple: in each game, you are forced to take part
in something called a "Nonary Game" wherein you must solve puzzles to escape
from a locked rooms. If you are unable to escape, you will die. I'm sure the
puzzles will be wonderfully complex, and the writing no doubt involves some
brilliant twists and turns!

## 5. {% include game.html game="A Hat in Time" %}

A Hat in Time is a 3D platformer in the same vein as Super Mario 64 and
Banjo-Kazooie. There's lots of collectibles to find, power ups to unlock, and
worlds to explore, all wrapped up in a playful, charming package where the main
character is called "Hat Kid." It should be fun adventure!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Forgotton Anne" %}

Forgotton Anne takes place in the Forgotten Lands, the place where all lost
things end up. The Forgotlings spring to life from these lost items as a result
of their desire to be found again. You play as Anne, tasked with keeping order
in the Forgotten Lands, and longing to someday return to the human world
herself.

Like Tokyo Dark, this game is part of the "Square Enix Collective," a program
through which indie developers can get publishing services, and is published by
Square Enix. Forgotton Anne is described as a cinematic adventure with puzzles
and platforming. What drew me to this game more than anything is the graphics.
They're wonderfully animated, and look like something out of an animated film.

## 3. {% include game.html game="Resident Evil 4" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: I've finally experienced this survival horror/action classic, and I
thoroughly enjoyed it! It made me dread having to navigate through certain
areas. At the same time, parts of it were full of delicious B movie cheesiness.
[You can read more about my thoughts on it here]({% post_url
2020-07-06-what-im-playing-no-79 %}#ResidentEvil4)!

I'm not sure why, but I wasn't interested in the Resident Evil series for a long
time. I was probably too young for them when they first released. My first
Resident Evil game was Resident Evil 5, and I enjoyed its unique charm. It
wasn't until later that I started hearing how Resident Evil 4 was a lot like 5,
but better. Many consider it one of the greatest video games ever. In light of
such acclaim, I'd say it's finally time I played it. Eventually I'll go back and
play the HD remasters of Resident Evil 1 and Resident Evil 0, since I already
have both of them on Steam and I'm curious to experience *classic* Resident Evil
gameplay, but Resident Evil 4 comes first!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Beyond Good & Evil" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: Finished! Beyond Good & Evil was great. It had some flaws, but I think
it still held up well and the story was quite enjoyable! You can [read more of
my thoughts on it here]({% post_url 2020-05-25-what-im-playing-no-73
%}#BeyondGoodEvil)

So this game isn't actually on my Steam backlog at all, because I own it on
Uplay, not Steam. It is available on Steam though, so I'm including it here!
I'm pretty sure it was given away for free on Uplay a while back, which is how I
came to own it.

Anyway, Beyond Good & Evil is a critically acclaimed action-adventure game with
a cult following to this day. It follows an investigative reporter, Jade, as she
investigates a conspiracy on the planet Hillys. The setting has this cool sci-fi
aesthectic with fantasy elements as well, like the anthropomorphic animals that
live alongside humans in this intergalactic world. The combat received some
criticism upon release, but the rest of the game was well received, and I'm
curious to see how it holds up today.

## 1. {% include game.html game="Danganronpa 2 Goodbye Despair" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Finished! I enjoyed this game every bit as much as the first game. You
can read about my thoughts on it in [What I'm Playing No. 72]({% post_url
2020-05-18-what-im-playing-no-72 %}#Danganronpa2:GoodbyeDespair) and [What I'm
Playing No. 73]({% post_url 2020-05-25-what-im-playing-no-73
%}#Danganronpa2:GoodbyeDespair).

I enjoyed the first Danganronpa game so much, I'm really looking forward to
playing this next game in the series! The writing of the first game was just *so
good*. That's really all I have to say about this one. I want to go in with as
little information about the game as possible, so no brief description of this
one, other than that it's a visual novel and I can't wait to see what it has in
store!
