---
layout: post
title: PS5 Showcase (September 2020)
author: bsinky
description: "My personal highlights from Sony's September 2020 PS5 Showcase."
date: 2020-09-17
modified: 2020-09-17
categories: [News]
tags: [News,Hype]
image:
    feature: feature-playstation.jpg
    thumb: feature-playstation-thumb.jpg
games:
- Final Fantasy XVI
- Spider-Man Miles Morales
- Hogwarts Legacy
- Deathloop
---

We have an official PS5 release date: November 12th or November 19th depending
on where in the world you live! Personally, there were some pretty exciting
announcements and reveals in this showcase, and that's what I'm going to be
focusing on in this post.

<!--more-->

One thing that I think is pretty cool is that a lot of the games shown are
coming to PC as well. I don't know when I'll be getting a PS5, so it's nice to
know that I *might* have the option to play some of these games on PC before I
pick up a PS5...if my now 5 year old PC meets the minimum requirements that is!
After the presentation, Sony shed more light on PS5's backwards compatibility
with PS4 games, announcing that PS4 discs would be playable on the version of
PS5 with a disc drive. It's nice to have that confirmed!

Anyway, here are the games I was most excited to see during this showcase event,
and some brief thoughts on them.

## {% include game.html game="Final Fantasy XVI" video="2tBnBAkHv9M" %}

This announcement had been rumored for a little while now, but seeing it
actually announced still got me hyped. I haven't played many Final Fantasy
titles, but I love that it features classic Final Fantasy staples like crystals,
chocobos, marlboros, summons, and so on. The setting seems to be high fantasy,
or at least leaning more toward high fantasy than FFXV. Since I've only played
high fantasy Final Fantasy games (I, II, IX, Tactics Advance) that feels very
comforting. I also loved the nods to classic Final Fantasy musical themes spread
throughout the trailer.

Naoki Yoshida (Yoshi P) is the producer on this game, which is a good sign I
guess since he is often credited with transforming Final Fantasy XIV from the
mess it was at launch to a very popular and well-received MMO. I've never played
FFXIV, but it sounds like FFXVI is in good hands! Combat will be real-time
action combat, possibly similar to FFXV or maybe FFVII Remake. It seems like it
would make sense for them to re-use and build upon FFVII Remake's battle system,
but I guess we'll see. Would I prefer turn-based combat? Yeah, probably, but I
can't be too critical since I haven't played any of the more recent action RPG
Final Fantasy games.

Final Fantasy XVI will be a timed PS5 console exclusive, and will be coming
other platforms later, although which platforms those are has yet to be
confirmed. The end slide shown during the presentation said it would be coming
to PC, but the trailers uploaded since then have an alternate end slide that
just says "other platforms" and doesn't explicitly mention PC.

## {% include game.html game="Spider-Man Miles Morales" video="T03PxxuCfDA" %}

This game looks *beautiful*. In the segment where Miles and his friend are
walking down the street, the reflections in the water on the pavement look
fantastic. I wonder if they were included as a nod to the "water puddle
controversy" of the PS4 Spider-Man, where some people where irritated when
reflections were shown in water puddles in a trailer but weren't present in the
final game. I digress - that really doesn't matter.

What does matter is that Spider-Man: Miles Morales looks like it will be a solid
return to the gameplay that made Spider-Man so much fun, obviously with some new
features and new abilities since Miles Morales has a few powers that Peter
Parker doesn't.

Spider-Man: Miles Morales is releasing for both PS4 and PS5, with a Holiday 2020
release window.

## {% include game.html game="Hogwarts Legacy" video="1O6Qstncpnc" %}

This was the announcement I was most excited about from the presentation. Some
development footage/screenshots of this had leaked ages ago, circulating as
early as October 2018, and some more rumors of its existence were circulating
since then too, but the official reveal was still super exciting! The Wizarding
World is an IP that has been *woefully* underutilized in video games, so seeing
a game of this scope is really promising.

My wife and I have really enjoyed the Harry Potter books, films, and even video
games, as well as open world RPGs like Skyrim. If this game gives us the "open
world Harry Potter RPG" we've been dreaming of for years, then we will both be
very, very happy!

There weren't many concrete details to be found in the trailer, but upon doing
some research for this post, [the official WB Games site for Hogwarts
Legacy](https://hogwartslegacy.warnerbrosgames.com/) says the following:

> "Hogwarts Legacy is an immersive, open-world action RPG set in the world first
> introduced in the Harry Potter books. Now you can take control of the action
> and be at the center of your own adventure in the wizarding world. Embark on a
> journey through familiar and new locations as you explore and discover
> fantastic beasts, customize your character and craft potions, master spell
> casting, upgrade talents, and become the wizard you want to be.

That definitely sounds promising!

The trailer lists a 2021 release year. It doesn't indicate any platforms, but
the official website shows logos for PS4, PS5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X, and PC,
so it's probably safe to assume it will release on all of those platforms.

## {% include game.html game="Deathloop" video="dT1BlnDt1R4" %}

From the new trailer in this showcase, it seems like Deathloop might have some
pretty cool branching routes. Unless it was just cinematic trailer flair, I get
the feeling you'll be able to play through different levels or variations of
levels depending on your choices. That's what I'm imagining based on how the
trailer explains how Colt only has 24 hours to kill his 8 targets and how he'll
have to somehow "kill 2 birds with one stone." That kind of freedom to choose
your own route would be amazing! Alternatively, it could just be that there's
one solution to killing all 8 targets within 24 hours, and you'll just have to
try different things and play through the time loop multiple times to get it
right. That would be pretty cool too.

I love the supernatural powers Colt has at his disposal. The teleportation power
looks nearly identical to Dishonored's "Blink" ability, and telepathically
picking up and throwing enemies looks really cool from what's shown in the
trailer. Every Deathloop trailer I've seen just has me thinking "Dishonored, but
with more guns," and that sounds awesome!

Deathloop is coming to PS5 and PC with a release window of Q2 2021.
