---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Oldest Games in my Backlog
author: bsinky
description: "A top 10 list of the oldest games in my backlog by release date."
date: 2020-03-13
modified: 2020-03-13
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Backlog,Retro]
image:
    feature: feature-retro.jpg
    thumb: feature-retro-thumb.jpg
    credit: Steve Johnson
    creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/blue-red-and-black-abstract-painting-2130475/
---

Games on earlier video game systems are sometimes seen as outdated, or even
ugly. It all comes down to personal preference though. For instance, I have no
interest in the Atari 2600 or its games, but I'm sure there are plenty of people
who still love the system today, and for whom its library is still very much
worth playing, and that's wonderful! I think all the games on this list are
worth a try, but whether I'm right or wrong about each of them remains to be
seen, since they're still in my backlog!

<!--more-->

Just a quick note, when I say "oldest," I **don't** mean the 10 games that have
been in my backlog the longest, but rather the 10 games that have the earliest
release dates. The release date I used was the North American release, unless
the game never had one, in which case I used its Japanese release date.
Admittedly, some of the release date information on some of these is pretty
spotty online. There's a section of the list focused on 1991 that could
potentially be in the wrong order simply because I could only locate the release
year for a game's North American release.

## 10. {% include game.html game="Streets of Rage 2" platform="" %}

As I said in my [Top 10 Sega Genesis Games in my Backlog]({% post_url
2020-02-26-top-10-sega-genesis-games-in-my-backlog %}) post, Streets of Rage 2
is a beat 'em up game, and both it and the rest of the series are held in high
regard by many. I enjoy the occasional beat 'em up, so I'm really looking
forward to giving this a try!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Arcana" platform="" %}

HAL Laboratory may be known for the Kirby series, but they've developed other
games as well, including this RPG for the SNES. Arcana's gameplay primarily
involves exploring dungeons and towns in first-person and fighting enemies in
turn-based battles triggered as random encounters. It sounds like a pretty
difficult game for a number of reasons. In game, the characters and enemies are
presented as cards, as if they're part of a tabletop RPG. This sounds pretty
charming, and I am curious to see some of HAL's non-Kirby work.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Shin Megami Tensei" platform="" %}

Shin Megami Tensei made my [Top 10 SNES Games in my Backlog]({% post_url
2019-08-11-top-10-snes-games-in-my-backlog %}) list a while back. This is the
game that launched the Shin Megami Tensei franchise, but as I mention in the
aforementioned post, the only official English release of it was an iOS port in 2014. Luckily, a fan-made English translation patch was released by Aeon Genesis
all the way back in 2002! That is no doubt the way I'll be experiencing this
game when I finally get around to it.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Super Castlevania IV" platform="" %}

Super Castlevania IV is a re-imagining of the original Castlevania. It is set at
the same time, and follows the same story of Simon Belmont in his quest to
defeat Count Dracula, but features different levels and gameplay. The game takes
place over several stages where you control Simon, fighting enemies with his
whip and doing some platforming. The whip can be swung in 8 directions rather
than 2 as in the NES original.

I've heard this game is different enough from the original that it doesn't
replace it, but serves as a solid example of classic Castlevania gameplay in its
own right.

## 6. {% include game.html game="ActRaiser" platform="" %}

Another game from the Top 10 SNES Games in my Backlog. ActRaiser still sounds
really interesting. The juxtaposition of platforming and city-building elements
within a single game is just too unique to pass up!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Shining in the Darkness" platform="" %}

Though it's a first-person dungeon crawler, a genre which I've struggled through
in the past, I'm still interested in giving Shining in the Darkness a try. Thus,
it remains a part of my backlog. Interestingly, Shining in the Darkness is the
first game in the "Shining" series, but later games featured different styles of
gameplay. For instance, the Shining Force games are strategy RPGs. At this time,
only one other title in the series features first-person dungeon crawling:
Shining the Holy Ark on the Sega Saturn.

## 4. {% include game.html game="Warsong" platform="" %}

Known as Langrisser outside of North America, Warsong shares some similarities
with Fire Emblem. It's a strategy RPG, and you have several heroes with
different character classes under your control. If a hero dies, they're gone for
good, but you can also hire generic troops.

Recently, this game and its sequel were remade and released as Langrisser I & II
for PS4, Nintendo Switch, and PC. I'm really more interested in the upgraded
versions than the original, but it could still be fun to see the original game
and compare it to the 2020 remake.

## 3. {% include game.html game="Phantasy Star II" platform="" %}

I've actually played a bit of Phantasy Star II, but I don't think I made it even
halfway through. It was part of the Sega Smash Pack compilation for PC, and this
was my first exposure to it. I really loved the aesthetic, it feels like sci-fi
fused with high fantasy. It takes place on a planet with advanced technology,
and yet some characters still use swords in battle, albeit high tech ones. From
what I remember, a fair bit of grinding is involved in this game, as dungeons
can be long, and filled with random encounters with challenging enemies.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Digital Devil Story Megami Tensei" platform="" %}

The grandfather of the Shin Megami Tensei series, Digital Devil Story: Megami
Tensei is a turn-based RPG where you explore dungeons in first person and fight
demons in battles triggered via random encounters. Your party consists of two
human characters and whatever demons you're able to convince to join your side.
The ability to negotiate with demons and have them join you is probably its
greatest innovation, and this would go on to become a staple of the Shin Megami
Tensei series. As an early RPG, and the ancestor of the difficult Shin Megami
Tensei series, I'm sure many tough challenges await in this game. I may need to
consult a strategy guide several times to make my way through it, but I'm
definitely curious to experience the game that would lead to Shin Megami Tensei,
and in turn, Persona!

Digital Devil Story: Megami Tensei was released in Japan and never localized,
but there is an [English fan translation patch available on
ROMHacking.net](https://www.romhacking.net/translations/2287/) courtesy of
EsperKnight, Tom, and Pennywise.

## 1. {% include game.html game="Castlevania" platform="" %}

After playing Symphony of the Night, I definitely became interested in the
Castlevania series. The series started out with considerably different gameplay
though. Castlevania on NES is an action-platformer, and is split into stages.
Completing the game will definitely require a lot of patience to learn the
ropes, but I know I'll be able to do it eventually because you have unlimited
lives. Eventually I'll be able to guide Simon Belmont to victory in his quest to
defeat Dracula, I just need to be persistent!

I'm not sure if I'll end up playing this game or Super Castlevania IV first, but
whichever order I play them in, I'm definitely curious to see how they compare.
