---
layout: post
title: 10 Great Short Games on Steam
author: bsinky
description: "10 great games on Steam that can be finished in under 8 hours."
date: 2020-11-06
modified: 2020-11-06
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Steam]
image:
  feature: feature-steam.jpg
  thumb: feature-steam-thumb.jpg
  credit: Dana Tentis
  creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/abstract-art-background-blue-370799/
games:
- Octodad Dadliest Catch
- Costume Quest
- SteamWorld Dig
- Tokyo Dark
- Momodora Reverie Under the Moonlight
- The Mummy Demastered
- Limbo
- Cave Story+
- Bastion
- Gris
---

Sometimes you just want to play a game from start to finish without having it
take several days worth of hours. It's not that I don't enjoy longer games (some
of my favorite games are *very* lengthy RPGs), but it's still nice to play some
short games sometimes. In this list, in no particular order, are 10 games
available on Steam that I've enjoyed in the past, and they all take less than 8
hours on average to finish!

<!--more-->

For each game here, I've provided a rough estimate of how long it takes to
finish the main story. This information was pulled from HowLongToBeat.com, where
I took the Main Story completion time for each game and rounded it up to the
next whole hour. You could definitely play many of these games for longer that
the specified time if you wanted to complete some of their extra content, but
even then they're all fairly short games!

## 10. {% include game.html game="Octodad Dadliest Catch" postfix="(3 hours)" %}

I'm not sure what genre Octodad falls into. Physics-based...puzzle game, maybe?
You take control of an octopus with a human wife and two human children. Your
family is somehow unaware that you are an octopus, and you have to make your way
through several levels, completing objectives without looking too suspicious.
Aside from the absolutely bizarre premise, the controls make this game
hilariously entertaining. You control the "legs" and "arms" of the octopus
independently as he walks around looking as human as possible. Mundane tasks
like turning off your alarm clock suddenly become quite entertaining under this
control scheme!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Costume Quest" postfix="(6 hours)" %} 

RPGs are usually a large time commitment. 20 to 30 hours for the main story is
on the short side for the genre, but there are definitely exceptions to this,
and Costume Quest is one of them.

Costume Quest is a turn-based RPG with that shares several things in common with
classic Paper Mario games: turn-based combat where you must execute various
button commands to deal damage, and overworld abilities that you must use to
progress. Supporting all of this is a whimsical story set on Halloween night,
where monsters suddenly appear and kidnap your sibling. You have no choice but
to don your Halloween costume and do battle against the monsters to rescue your
sibling. While collecting a ton of candy along the way. It is Halloween, after
all!

## 8. {% include game.html game="SteamWorld Dig" postfix="(5 hours)" %}

SteamWorld Dig is an unusual metroidvania. It definitely has the mechanics of
one, but certain parts definitely distance it from other games in the genre.
Notably, you spend quite a bit of the time digging downward through the earth,
crafting your own tunnels and shaping the map as you go.

SteamWorld Dig was a lot of fun, and I definitely recommend it if you're into
metroidvanias and looking for something a bit different!

## 7. {% include game.html game="Tokyo Dark" postfix="(5 hours)" %}

Tokyo Dark is a point-and-click adventure game with a mystery/horror focus. This
one is a *little* deceptive since that "5 hours" is for a single playthrough,
and truthfully Tokyo Dark is best experienced by playing through it twice. The
initial playthrough is an enjoyable trek through a horror-tinged anime mystery
set in Tokyo, while the second playthrough is an opportunity to see how your
choices affect the outcome, and a chance to see additional endings.

Subsequent playthrough after the first go much more quickly, as you'll be able
to skip dialogue you've seen already, and unlock save slots to be able to try
different choices without having to start from the beginning all the time. I was
able to get 6 or 7 different endings after 8 and a half hours of playing, so
there's still not a huge time commitment with this one.

## 6. {% include game.html game="Momodora Reverie Under the Moonlight" postfix="(4 hours)" %}

My own playthrough was under 3 hours, but Momodora: Reverie Under the Moonlight
somehow manages to pack a complete metroidvania experience into its short
duration. There aren't many ability upgrades here, but the ones you get are
cool. The pixel art throughout this game is really good. It definitely seems to
draw inspiration from the look of Cave Story in some ways.

## 5. {% include game.html game="The Mummy Demastered" postfix="(5 hours)" %}

The Mummy Demastered is a shining example of how licensed movie tie-in games can
be really good! I've never seen the movie it's based on, but I had to give it a
try after hearing good things about it on Reddit, and I'm so glad I did. The
Mummy Demastered follows your typical metroidvania formula very closely, but
that's not a bad thing because it's executed very well. The map was fun to
explore, as upgrades and collectibles are hidden around every corner. The pacing
is quite good, and the 5 hour running time has a number of challenging and
satisfying boss fights packed into it.

If you like metroidvanias and haven't played it yet, give The Mummy Demastered a
try!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Limbo" postfix="(4 hours)" %}

Limbo is a 2D physics-based puzzle platformer with a very distinctive visual
style: it's entirely in black and white. It's a bit dark, in that you can and
will die gruesome deaths as you make your way through this remarkable
experience.

To me, Limbo is one of the must-play indie games. It's a really solid
experience, and I think anyone interested in the genre should give it a try!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Cave Story" postfix="(7 hours)" %}

Here's another indie game I consider a must-play. Cave Story is a metroidvania
with an interesting weapon system. You gain points that increase your weapon's
level as you defeat enemies, but taking damage reduces your points and can
downgrade your weapon's level. Combat can get *really* hectic though, so you're
almost definitely going to take damage. It's been a long time since I played
Cave Story, but I remember being absolutely enamored with its story. The story
sort of reminded me of something you'd see in a Miyazaki film. It just had that
general sort of feeling to me, and that's definitely a compliment!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Bastion" postfix="(6 hours)" %}

I was blown away by Bastion when I played it. It's an isometric action RPG with
gorgeous 2D visuals. Couple that with the fully voiced narration that tells the
story as you play, and you have another must-play indie game on your hands.

Developer Supergiant Games is seeing enormous success with their latest game,
Hades, these days, but Bastion is proof that they've been crafting excellent
games for years.

## 1. {% include game.html game="Gris" postfix="(4 hours)" %}

Gris is a platform adventure game, and is yet another must-play indie in my
book. Some of my exact words as I played it were, "Gris might be one of the most
beautiful games I've ever played," and after finishing it I definitely stand by
that statement. Gris manages to be beautiful, emotional, and inspiring, despite
there be no dialogue whatsoever.

I really can't recommend Gris enough, especially if you're looking for a short
game to play. My playthrough was only 3 hours, and I loved every minute of it!

