---
layout: post
title: Top 10 PS4 Games in my Backlog
author: bsinky
description: "A list of the top 10 PS4 games in my backlog"
date: 2020-01-11
modified: 2020-08-10
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,PS4,Backlog]
games:
- Shadow of the Colossus 2018
- God of War 2018
- Grand Kingdom
- Destiny Connect Tick-Tock Travelers
- The Order 1886
- Horizon Zero Dawn
- Uncharted The Nathan Drake Collection
- Gravity Rush Remastered
- Persona 5 Scramble The Phantom Strikers
- Persona 5 Royal
image:
  feature: feature-ps4.jpg
  thumb: feature-ps4-thumb.jpg
  credit: Pixabay
  creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/abstract-art-blur-bright-373543/
---

Unlike other consoles I've owned, my collection of physical PS4 games is rather
small. There are a few reasons for this, one of which is that I do own some PS4
games digitally. Another is that games seem to come out on PC as well as
consoles more than ever before. Because of this, my PS4 backlog is actually
pretty small. I actually only own 4 of the games on this list as of this
writing, I haven't picked up the other 6 yet!

<!--more-->

Games exclusive to the PS4 make up a large portion of this list. Like in the
[Top 10 PS3 Games in my Backlog]({% post_url
2019-10-25-top-10-ps3-games-in-my-backlog %}), I mostly prioritized the games I
already owned here. There are a few exceptions that I ranked higher even though
I don't own them yet, because I'm just really pumped for those!

## 10. {% include game.html game="Shadow of the Colossus 2018" %}

I've always been curious about the original Shadow of the Colossus on the PS2,
so when an HD remake was announced for the PS4, I was definitely interested. The
game tells the story of a young man called Wander as he fights against enormous
beasts called colossi. These colossi are the only enemies in the game, and each
encounter with them is sort of like a puzzle.

The premise here sounds really intriguing, and I've heard only good things about
the narrative. I'm definitely looking forward to picking this one up someday!

## 9. {% include game.html game="God of War 2018" %}

In what is one of the most praised PlayStation exclusives in years, God of War
for the PS4 sees the return of Kratos, but one of the changes here is that he's
not alone in his quest this time. His son, a young boy named Atreus, is with him
on his journey. Furthermore, instead of drawing on Greek mythology, the game
draws on Norse mythology for inspiration instead. Despite these changes, the
core gameplay is the same: you play as Kratos and fight your way through
whichever monsters and gods get in your way.

As of this writing, I still haven't played a God of War game! This entry does
take place after God of War III, but since it's sort of a series reboot, I think
it would be an okay place to start. I'd just be missing on whatever nods to the
previous games are included in this one.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Grand Kingdom" %}

Also available on PlayStation Vita, Grand Kingdom is a tactical RPG in which you
control squads of mercenaries. Your mercenary units have different character
classes which govern their available abilities. What sounds interesting here is
that you form your units into squads, and these squads are moved around a board
outside of battles during missions. When a squad comes into contact with a group
of enemies, then a battle is triggered. I believe battles should play out
similarly to other grid-based strategy games, and these sound fun too, but I'm
really curious to see how the gameplay outside of battle shapes the experience.

I might wind up picking up the PS Vita version of this instead, if I happen to
find that for a lower price. I think the PS4 version has always been cheaper on
the second hand market though, so it's more likely that I will end up playing it
on PS4.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Destiny Connect Tick-Tock Travelers" %}

Also available on Switch, this charming JRPG puts you in control of a group of
kids and their robot guardian as they battle slews of out of control machines
intent on their destruction. I've heard the characters and plot have a ton of
charm! I'm also looking forward to the turn-based battle system.

## 6. {% include game.html game="The Order 1886" %}

I know basically nothing about this game. It was on a pretty good sale, so I
picked it up on PSN a while back. Honestly, the main reason I picked it up is
because it's a PS4 exclusive. That's the real reason it's so high on this list:
I already own it, and I should really prioritize the games I've already bought!

It's a third-person cover shooter, and I always used to enjoy the Gears of War
games, so I'm curious to see how this compares. Reviews for it are hit or miss,
but I'm willing to give it a try and form my own opinion.

## 5. {% include game.html game="Horizon Zero Dawn" %}

Horizon Zero Dawn is an action RPG set in a unique open world. It takes place on
Earth during the 31st century. Humanity has been reduced to isolated tribes, and
animal-like robots now dominate the Earth. The player controls a young woman
named Aloy as she fights against the machines.

The setting alone is enough to interest me here, but there seems to be a lot to
do in the open world as well, especially in terms of combat. In your fight
against the machines, you can employ traps, arrows, stealth, and all sorts of
other weapons in order to take down your foes. It all sounds great to me, which
is why I picked it up digitally during a PSN sale a while back!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Uncharted The Nathan Drake Collection" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: The Nathan Drake Collection has been Charted! These were really solid
action-adventure 3rd-person shooters. The emphasis is more on shooting than in
the Tomb Raider reboots, but I still enjoyed these. You can read more about my
thoughts in [What I'm Playing No. 83]({% post_url
2020-08-03-what-im-playing-no-83 %}#Uncharted:TheNathanDrakeCollection) and
[What I'm Playing No. 84]({% post_url 2020-08-10-what-im-playing-no-84
%}#Uncharted:TheNathanDrakeCollection).

The Uncharted series follows protagonist Nathan Drake as he travels the world in
search of treasure. With gameplay firmly in the action-adventure genre, each
entry has garnered great reviews for its epic single-player campaign and
storytelling. I've heard the gameplay of the 2013 Tomb Raider reboot is similar
to Uncharted, so if that's true I'll probably really enjoy these games!

Since it's a compilation of the first 3 Uncharted games, Uncharted: The Nathan
Drake Collection will probably take a bit to finish once I finally start it.
This was one of the earlier PS4 games I bought, since I wanted to see what the
series was all about. I'll probably end up playing one game at a time, and
taking breaks to play other games in between. I don't want the experience to get
stale!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Gravity Rush Remastered" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: Done! I really enjoyed Gravity Rush: Remastered. Charming characters
and environments + fun gameplay = a great time! You can [read more about my
thoughts on the game here]({% post_url 2020-06-01-what-im-playing-no-74
%}#GravityRush:Remastered).

Gravity Rush originally released for the PlayStation Vita, but eventually
received a remastered port to PlayStation 4, simply titled Gravity Rush:
Remastered. The game follows Kat, who has lost her memories, after she wakes up
in a floating city called Hekseville. She discovers she has the ability to
manipulate gravity, or at least how it affects her.

Hekseville is an open world, and the gameplay sees the player traversing the
city as Kat, making full use of her gravity-bending powers. She'll walk on walls
and fly through the air while fighting enemies and completing quests. It sounds
like an incredibly fun experience, and I'm really looking forward to giving it a
shot! This is another game I own digitally, having picked it up during a PSN
sale.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Persona 5 Scramble The Phantom Strikers" %}

Much like Hyrule Warriors and Fire Emblem Warriors are for their respective
series, Persona 5 Scramble is basically a Dynasty Warriors game set in the
Persona universe. Therefore, instead of the usual turn-based battle mechanics of
the Persona series, it will feature hack 'n' slash gameplay against hordes of
enemies. As of this writing, it hasn't even release in Japan yet, so I'm a
little uncertain of the exact details. However, based on what I've seen, it
seems that it will have a surprising amount of story content.

At this time, an English localization hasn't even been officially announced, but
I have high hopes that it will be soon! I haven't played a Dynasty Warriors game
before, but I'm excited to try this one when it comes out in the West. Playing
as the members of the Phantom Thieves in a hack 'n' slash game sounds pretty
awesome!

## 1. {% include game.html game="Persona 5 Royal" checkmark="" %}

**Edit**: Persona 5 Royal is out in the West now, PatronusLight and I have
finished it, and it's wonderful! Here's [my post on many of the changes and new
features]({% post_url 2020-04-25-persona-5-royal-changes-and-new-features %}).

Persona 5 Royal is an enhanced version of Persona 5 with new characters,
gameplay elements, and story additions. As of this writing, it's also not yet
released in English!

Given that it's not out in my region yet, it's sort of cheap of me to put this
at the top of the list. That didn't stop me for Persona 5 Scramble either
though! If you've followed me for a while, you probably already know that I
*adore* Persona 5. After I heard Atlus would be releasing an enhanced version of
it, similarly to how they released Persona 4 Golden, I was ecstatic. I know I'll
be putting hundreds of hours into this game when it comes out, and I just can't
wait to step into the shoes of the Phantom Thieves of Hearts once more!
