---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Unexpectedly Good Steam Games
author: bsinky
description: "10 games on Steam that I didn't know much about before playing that really impressed me!"
date: 2020-07-29
modified: 2020-07-29
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Steam]
image:
    feature: feature-good-steam-games.jpg
    thumb: feature-good-steam-games-thumb.jpg
    credit: Scott Webb
    creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/abstract-architecture-building-exterior-geometric-593158/
games:
- Contrast
- Lara Croft GO
- Never Alone
- Aragami
- The Turing Test
- It came from space and ate our brains
- Party Hard
- Kathy Rain
- Oxenfree
- SteamWorld Heist
---

I would call this a "hidden gems" list, except many of these are probably well
known, at least in certain circles. I really just wanted to highlight games I
played on Steam that I knew little about before jumping into. In return for my
curiosity, these games rewarded me with very enjoyable experiences, several of
which I still return to on occasion!

<!--more-->

The title I picked for this post is a little unfortunate since it sort of makes
it sound like these games have a bad reputation, or that I expected them to be
bad, but that wasn't my intention and it couldn't be further from the truth! I
decided to stubbornly stick with this title despite potential misconceptions it
could cause, and I hope you can forgive me for that!

Although I refer to these as Steam games, all of them are available on multiple
other platforms, and I've noted these platforms for each game as well. On with
the list!

## 10. {% include game.html game="Contrast" %}

**Also available on:** PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One

Contrast is a puzzle platformer that interchanges between 3D and 2D gameplay
sequences in a wonderfully effective way. The 2D segments take place in the
shadows cast by objects in the 3D world. Many puzzles must be solved by
manipulating elements of the 3D realm to cast different shadows on surfaces,
allowing you to reach new areas in the 2D shadow space. It's a cool mechanic,
and definitely makes this game worth playing in my opinion!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Lara Croft GO" %}

**Also available on:** PS4, PS Vita, iOS, Android, Windows Phone

This is a fun and well-designed puzzle game based on the Tomb Raider franchise.
It nicely represents the Tomb Raider series, and sees Lara Croft overcoming
obstacles such as venomous snakes, crumbling floors, and rolling boulders. It's
turn-based, with elements of the levels only moving when you move. This leads to
fun puzzles where you need to plan your movement just right in order to succeed,
but you have as much time as you need to figure things out.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Never Alone" %}

**Also available on**: PS3, PS4, Xbox One, Wii U, Switch, iOS

Never Alone is a puzzle platformer in which the player controls a young Iñupiaq
girl named Nuna and her Arctic fox companion as they make their way through
several harsh and wondrous environments. The story is based on traditional
Iñupiaq legends, and both entertains and offers a bit of insight into the
indigenous Alaskan people's culture.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Aragami" %}

**Also available on**: PS4, Xbox One, Switch

Aragami is a game I played pretty recently, and therefore it's still fresh in my
mind. There might be a bit of recency bias to this pick, but I thoroughly
enjoyed Aragami. I knew it was a stealth-action game with supernatural elements,
similar to Dishonored but played in third-person, but that was about it. Unlike
Dishonored, direct combat isn't really a feature here. Enemies take you out in
one hit, so you can't really confront them directly. Instead, you have to stick
to the shadows, teleporting between them and assassinated your foes stealthily.

The mechanics aren't quite as polished as something like Dishonored. There's a
little bit of jank from time to time, particularly when aiming your teleport
reticle at a ledge, but that doesn't stop Aragami from being a very enjoyable
experience!

## 6. {% include game.html game="The Turing Test" %}

**Also available on:** PS4, Xbox One, Switch, Stadia

The Turing Test is a first-person puzzle game. As a software engineer, my
interest was piqued by the title itself, which refers to a classic computer
science question of the same name. It's similar to Portal in that you must make
your way through several chambers, solving a puzzle to advance through each one.
Like Portal, there's also an A.I. that talks to you as you progress.

I don't remember much about the puzzles, except that I enjoyed them, and the
game was a very positive experience for me overall!
 
## 5. {% include game.html game="It came from space and ate our brains" %}

**Also available on:** PS4, Xbox One, Switch

Here's a really fun wave defense twin-stick shooter. It supports up to 4-player
co-op, and this is what really makes the game shine. It was definitely my go-to
couch co-op game for a while! I'll admit I can't really say if the soundtrack is
good or not. Most of the time that I've played this I've had the music muted and
been listening to my own music library while blasting away low-poly, bright pink
aliens alongside a friend. It's an awesome time!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Party Hard" %}

**Also available on:** PS4, Xbox One, Switch

I don't know how I heard about Party Hard, or how it ended up in my Steam
library so close to its release date, but I remember marathoning the entire
thing with a good friend sometime in early 2016. We were hooked by its goofiness
and gore! To this day, we sometimes return to it to play the co-op, which didn't
even exist when we first played it. It's *very* easy to mess up and die in this
game. We took turns trying the levels, passing the controller whenever we
died...we ended up passing the controller back and forth a ton, but we still had
a blast!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Kathy Rain" %}

**Also available on:** iOS, Android
 
Kathy Rain is a point and click adventure game set in the 90's and inspired by
point-and-click games from the same decade and earlier. As such, it's full of
wonderful pixel art in a 320x240 pixel resolution. You play as the titular
character, Kathy Rain, a college student majoring in journalism. She's
investigating a mystery in her hometown, and quickly gets wrapped up in the dark
and eerie goings-on of Conwell Springs.

I really enjoyed playing Kathy Rain. I played it several years ago, but still
find myself reminiscing about the plot and characters from time to time. It's an
excellent point and click game if you're in the mood for one!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Oxenfree" %}

**Also available on:** PS4, Xbox One, Switch, iOS, Android

Oxenfree is narrative-driven game about a group of friends on an island who
stumble upon something supernatural. Gameplay-wise, you walk around and make
choices that influence the direction the story takes. The story and characters
definitely make it worth playing if you're into this sort of game, and you can
affect the events in some fun ways. The presentation is really good, and there's
some solid voice acting. I don't know exactly how I'd describe the visual style,
but it definitely works for me. The speech bubbles that your dialogue options
appear in are super charming!

While reading about the game for this post, I learned that the developer, Night
School Studio, is partially comprised of former Telltale Games developers, which
makes a lot of sense given the kind of game Oxenfree is!

## 1. {% include game.html game="SteamWorld Heist" %}

**Also available on:** PS4, PS Vita, 3DS, Wii U, Switch, Stadia, iOS

I didn't know much about SteamWorld Heist when I went into it. I knew it
involved robots and turn-based, 2D tactical shooter combat, and that sounded
pretty fun to me. I had no idea I'd enjoy it was much as I did! It's full of
delightful characters, really fun gameplay, and some really cool music at the
robot bars! Seriously, I think it's the robot bar music that pushes this game to
the top of this list. It's performed by Steam Powered Giraffe, and it really
took me by surprise in the best possible way when I heard it in-game.

After hyping the music up so much, I have to link to one of the songs. Here's
"Star Scrap."

<figure class="center">
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iJHGjvCMseo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>

