---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Games That Never Got a Sequel
author: bsinky
description: "My personal list of my top 10 games that never received sequels."
date: 2020-09-12
modified: 2020-09-12
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10]
image:
    feature: feature-games-without-sequels.jpg
    thumb: feature-games-without-sequels-thumb.jpg
    credit: John Cahil Rom
    creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/underwater-2170473/
games:
- Amazing Island
- Billy Hatcher and the Giant Egg
- Dragon's Dogma Dark Arisen
- Jeanne d'Arc
- Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Blacklist
- Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2
- Kathy Rain
- Super Mario RPG The Legend of the Seven Stars
- Metroid Fusion
- Mischief Makers
---

Sometimes I think about awesome games I played in the past, and I realize that
said games were either one-off titles, never receiving any sequels, or they were
the last game released in their respective series, doomed to never see a
continuation of their saga. This is my list of 10 of those games without
sequels!

<!--more-->

I'll admit I bent the rules a bit with some of these entries. Some of them have
one or more spiritual successors, or maybe some spin-offs and remakes were
released in the series afterward but no true sequels. With that in mind, here's
the list.

## 10. {% include game.html game="Amazing Island" platform="" %}

Amazing Island deserves a sequel for one reason alone: its awesome monster
creator tools. I loved creating my own monster allies in Amazing Island as a
kid, and unlocking more customization options as I played was always exciting.
There's probably a few other games kind of like this, but it never got an actual
sequel. The closest thing to its monster creation that I've seen in a game is
probably Spore's creature designer, which is also pretty fun in that game.
Outside of the monster creation, Amazing Island is mostly a mini-game collection
and the mini-games themselves are just okay.

While I enjoyed it as a kid, trying to play it as an adult has gone pretty
poorly. I just can't win at some of the mini-games anymore, and I'm not sure
what I'm doing wrong!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Billy Hatcher and the Giant Egg" platform="" %}

While it could be pretty frustrating to play at times due to some janky
mechanics, I remember enjoying Billy Hatcher as a kid. It's a 3D platformer
where the main gimmick is that you'll be rolling eggs around for much of the
experience, using them to bounce, jump, and roll your way to collect all the
shiny things. Level selection and structure is similar to Super Mario 64 or
Sunshine, but the egg-based platforming definitely makes it unique.

It would have been cool to see Sonic Team polish up the mechanics a bit and
revisit the unique platforming of Billy Hatcher in a sequel, but alas, it was
not meant to be.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Dragon's Dogma Dark Arisen" platform="" %}

I never finished this game because I got stuck relatively early, but it has some
really interesting mechanics. Huge monsters that you can climb on and hack away
at, and deep customization of the Pawns that make up your party made this game
stand out.

As I learned while researching for this post, there was actually another
Dragon's Dogma game, an MMORPG called Dragon's Dogma Online, released only in
Japan. I don't know if that counts as a sequel to Dragon's Dogma or not, but
since it wasn't released internationally I think Dragon's Dogma is still a valid
entry on this list.

There's also a Dragon's Dogma anime releasing on Netflix soon. Maybe this means
a sequel is still possible someday, who knows?

## 7. {% include game.html game="Jeanne d'Arc" platform="" %}

For this one it makes sense there was never a direct sequel. Jeanne d'Arc does
what it sets out to do, and tells the story of Joan of Arc in an alternate
history with monsters and magic. A direct sequel wouldn't make sense, and it's
no surprise we never got a Jeanne d'Arc 2. However, I would love if Level-5 made
another SRPG with this concept. The "historical fantasy" setting is so cool, I
would have loved to see it again with another historical figure. Although, at
that point it's not really a sequel...unless they used it to start a brand new
historical fantasy SRPG franchise! That would have been pretty sweet.

## 6. {% include game.html game="Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Blacklist" platform="" %}

I never finished Blacklist, and in general I preferred the previous entry in the
series, Splinter Cell: Conviction. Had I known at the time that Blacklist would
be the last Splinter Cell game until the series entered hibernation, I probably
would have given it more attention.

Reading the Wikipedia article for Blacklist, apparently long-time series fans
didn't really like Conviction, and mostly prefer Blacklist over it. Since
Conviction is still the only Splinter Cell I've played, I can't compare it to
any others. It sounds like I ought to give Blacklist another chance someday
though!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2" platform="" %}

While the Rainbow Six series may not be dead since Rainbow Six: Siege exists, it
skips the single-player campaign offered by the Rainbow Six: Vegas games and
doubles down on the multiplayer components instead. I enjoy Siege, but the lack
of a full single-player campaign is a real shame in my opinion! The squad-based,
tactical single-player campaign in Rainbow Six Vegas 2 was a cool experience,
and I wish we could have seen another entry in the series featuring something
like it.

For a while I was really excited for the announced Rainbow Six: Patriots, which
would probably have featured something similar to the Rainbow Six campaign I'm
dreaming of, but it appears that project was either scrapped or transformed into
Siege during development.

## 4. {% include game.html game="Kathy Rain" platform="" %}

This was *such* a good point-and-click adventure game! It's unfortunate that
Kathy Rain never got another game, it seems like this could have been the
beginning of a promising, retro-style adventure game series featuring the
titular character.

I had thought that Kathy Rain was developer Clifftop Games' only game to date,
but when I was doing research for this post I was delighted to find I was wrong!
In 2019, Clifftop Games released another point-and-click adventure game,
Whispers of a Machine. I don't think this one has any connection to Kathy Rain,
but from the screenshots it looks like it employs a similar pixel art style.
Kathy Rain may not have any sequels, but I am really glad to see the developer
released another point-and-click game!

## 3. {% include game.html game="Super Mario RPG The Legend of the Seven Stars" platform="" %}

While the first Paper Mario game is a spiritual successor to Super Mario RPG in
many ways, Square would never return to develop another Mario RPG. I love Paper
Mario, but it differs from Super Mario RPG in some significant ways. Paper Mario
has simplified stats and features badges instead of equipment, while Super Mario
RPG stays much closer to typical RPG elements and features several kinds of
character stats and interchangeable equipment slots for weapons, armor, and
accessories.

Since the time of Super Mario RPG, Nintendo has published a number of RPGs
featuring Mario, including a few Paper Mario RPGs and the Mario & Luigi series.
Therefore, I don't think it's likely they'll ever partner with Square Enix to
create a Super Mario RPG 2. We'll probably always be left wondering what a
Square-developed Super Mario RPG followup would look like.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Metroid Fusion" platform="" %}

Metroid Fusion may be more guided than earlier entries in the series, but I
really enjoyed it nonetheless. Unfortunately, it never received a sequel!
Metroid as a series has been very stagnant since, with new entries mostly
consisting of remakes and spin-offs. I hold on to the hope that Metroid 5 will
release someday, but I don't think it's very likely. At least Metroid Prime 4 is
still reportedly on the horizon.

## 1. {% include game.html game="Mischief Makers" platform="" %}
 
I love this 2D action platformer on N64. That Mischief Makers never got a sequel
on either N64 or any future console is a real travesty. It hasn't even received
a re-release of any kind! The reviews for it were fairly average when it first
came out, so that's probably a contributing factor to why a sequel never came to
be.

Mischief Makers is definitely an underrated game. It has some unique gameplay
mechanics, with grabbing, shaking, and throwing things playing a *large* role.
Boss fights are quite memorable too, there's one towards the end that I remember
being especially impressive, and I just might have to replay the game soon just
to experience that fight again! It might take a little time to get used to the
controls and the unique platforming, but it's definitely worth it!
