---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Strategy Games in my Steam Backlog (2020)
author: bsinky
description: "A list of the strategy games at the top of my Steam backlog as of 2020."
date: 2020-03-19
modified: 2020-03-19
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Backlog,Strategy]
image:
    feature: feature-strategy-games-backlog-2020.jpg
    thumb: feature-strategy-games-backlog-2020-thumb.jpg
---

Looking at the immensity of my Steam backlog recently, I had an interesting
thought. Top 10 lists are fun to make, but I can't make another "Top 10 Games in
my Steam Backlog" list until I finish all the games in [the first list]({%
post_url 2019-05-04-top-10-games-in-my-steam-backlog-may-2019 %}). But while
that list is focused on the *overall* most interesting games I haven't played
yet, what if I could get around this self-imposed restriction, and make a list
of the top 10 games in my Steam backlog in a specific genre? That brings us to
here, now, with this list of the **Top 10 Strategy Games in my Steam Backlog**!
         
<!--more-->

One thing I realized in making this list, the "Strategy" user-defined tag on
Steam is used very broadly. It's applied to basically any game with turn-based
combat, but I tend to think of games like Fire Emblem, or Age of Empires II when
I think of strategy games, and not games like Earthbound or Final Fantasy VI.
Anyway, you'll see real-time strategy games, strategy RPGs, and other twists on
the strategy genre in this list. Just because this is a list of strategy games
doesn't mean it lacks variety!

## 10. {% include game.html game="Shadowrun Returns" %}

I haven't played either the pen-and-paper RPG or any of the previous video games
based upon it, but Shadowrun Returns sounds and looks pretty intriguing. The
Shadowrun universe is all about a fusion of cyberpunk and fantasy. Magic exists
in the world alongside cyborgs and other futuristic elements. The videos for
Shadowrun Returns on the Steam store page give me classic Fallout vibes, given
the isometric perspective and turn-based combat, as well as some dialogue
options having skill checks.

## 9. {% include game.html game="Phantom Doctrine" %}

Phantom Doctrine seems like a version of XCOM set during the Cold War, with
stealth and espionage mechanics. As such, it's played on a grid, turn-based, and
features guns and a cover system. You also customize the operatives under your
control, and I'm always game for character customization systems. The single
player story campaign is touted as lasting 40+ hours, so Phantom Doctrine
clearly has a lot to offer.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Children of Zodiarcs" %}

This game would probably be a decent enough strategy RPG without any extra
gameplay mechanics, but developer Cardboard Utopia didn't stop there. On top of
the turn-based SRPG system, there are also deck-building and dice roll
mechanics. Attacks and abilities are executed by drawing cards from your deck
which control what options a character will have each turn. Once a card is
drawn, you roll dice to add additional modifiers to the attack or ability. This
sounds *super* unique, and all of that is on top of a story set in a fantasy
world about rebels overthrowing a corrupt system.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Tooth and Tail" %}

Tooth and Tail is a real-time strategy game where you lead your chosen faction
of anthropomorphic animals against the other three factions. Interestingly, it
has full gamepad support, as well as split-screen multiplayer. I think that's
what initially put it on my radar. I mean, how many RTS games offer local
split-screen co-op? I've played my fair share of Age of Empires II, but that's
the only RTS I've really gotten into, so I'm definitely curious to see how Tooth
and Tail compares.

## 6. {% include game.html game="Sword Legacy Omen" %}

A re-imagining of the tales of King Arthur, Sword Legacy: Omen follows Uther in
his quest to find Excalibur. Uther's journey will be bloody as he navigates the
dark and deceitful Broken Britannia. Gameplay takes place on a grid, and
features turn-based strategic gameplay with RPG elements. The Steam page says
it's a brutal experience several times, so I'm expecting it to be pretty
challenging. I don't expect the story and tone to be similar, but If the
gameplay is anything like Level-5's Jeanne d'Arc on PSP, then I'll probably
really enjoy this game!

## 5. {% include game.html game="XCOM 2" %}

Sequel to 2012's acclaimed XCOM: Enemy Unknown, and building upon the legacy of
the renowned strategy series that began back in 1994, XCOM 2 sees you fighting
to liberate Earth from its alien overlords. In the name of this mission, you'll
recruit soldiers to your cause, developing their skill trees, upgrading their
weapons and armor, and take the fight to the alien menace through turn-based
guerrilla warfare. From the sound of the Steam page and the user reviews for the
game, XCOM 2 has an incredible amount to offer, and the gameplay is simply
top-notch. This will be my introduction to the XCOM series!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Invisible Inc." %}

Here's a turn-based stealth tactics game from the same developer as Don't
Starve, Klei Entertainment. You control a team of secret agents infiltrating
various dangerous corporations in a futuristic, high tech world. I'm looking
forward to seeing how the stealth-focused gameplay works out in a turn-based
game like this. It features randomly generated elements as well, so it should be
pretty replayable.

## 3. {% include game.html game="Shadow Tactics Blades of the Shogun" %}

Described as a hardcore tactical stealth game, Shadow Tactics: Blades of the
Shogun plays in real-time, where you command several different heroes with
unique abilities. You'll guide them to stealthily climb over rooftops, evading
or eliminating enemies in your path depending on your play style. The game is
presented from a bird's eye view, and reminds me of Age of Empires in that
regard. It's set during the Edo period in Japan, and I'm really looking forward
to seeing the architecture of the period, and stealthily making my way through
some beautiful Japanese landscapes.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Mutant Year Zero Road to Eden" %}

Assuming I follow the priorities set in this list, this will be the second
XCOM-style game I play. Mario+Rabbids Kingdom Battle was the first. Evidently,
it's based on a Swedish pen-and-paper RPG called Mutant: Year Zero. The setting
is post-apocalyptic Sweden, after humanity has nuked themselves to death and
only mutant animals and humanoid creatures remain. Besides the turn-based,
tactical combat, I'm also looking forward to the exploration and stealth
elements here. It should be pretty cool!

## 1. {% include game.html game="Fell Seal Arbiter's Mark" %}

I've said it before and I'll said it again: I love Final Fantasy Tactics
Advance. As of this writing, I still haven't played Final Fantasy Tactics, but
I'm sure it's excellent as well. What does all this have to do with Fell Seal:
Arbiter's Mark? Well, when I first saw screenshots and read a little about the
game, I was instantly reminded of Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, and deeply
curious to see how apt the comparison might be. The Steam store page even
mentions Final Fantasy Tactics, including the Advance and A2 games, so I really
can't wait to give it a try myself!
