---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Upcoming Metroidvanias
author: bsinky
description: "A list of 10 upcomining metroidvanias that I am most looking forward to!"
date: 2021-03-26
modified: 2021-03-26
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Metroidvania]
image:
    feature: feature-upcoming-metroidvanias.jpg
    thumb: feature-upcoming-metroidvanias-thumb.jpg
    credit: the happiest face =)
    creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/broken-glass-wallpaper-866351/
---

Originally, this wasn't a top 10 list. But the more I researched metroidvanias
still in development, the more I found! More than I could fit into a Top 10!
Here's a list of promising metroidvanias that aren't out yet, but you might be
able to play some of these before the end of 2021!

<!--more-->

Just a quick note, the only criteria I had for including a game on this list is
that it can't have had a full release yet. "Upcoming" doesn't mean they're
coming out soon - many of the games in this list don't have release dates yet,
though there are several that are shooting for 2021 releases. Some of those
might slip into 2022 (or even later), but there is a chance some will hit their
2021 target.

I couldn't bring myself to leave these out of the list entirely, so before we
start with the Top 10 countdown, here's a quick Honorable Mentions lightning
round.

### Honorable Mentions

#### {% include game.html game="Kingdom Shell" %}

#### {% include game.html game="SteamDolls Order of Chaos" %}

#### {% include game.html game="Rune Fencer Illyia" %}
  
---

With those out of the way, it's time for the main event: here are my Top 10
Upcoming Metroidvanias.

## 10. {% include game.html game="Yeomna" %}
  
[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1414470/Yeomna__The_Adventures_of_Demon_Hunter/)
  
With 2D visuals inspired by traditional Korean paintings, Yeomna looks both
beautiful and unique. You play as Dongbaek, an exorcist who is half demon,
journeying through the Underworld fighting demons with your sword and gun. You
can also transform into a cat in order to dodge traps and open new paths.

One tiny criticism I have from watching the trailer: momentum during the main
character's jumps seems weird when colliding with something. There's a moment
where the main character turns into a cat, and when they're jumping back up they
hit a wall and stop for a second, but then their upward momentum continues, and
once they clear the obstacle, they keep moving left. It's hard to explain, but
it looks a little awkward. It would have seemed more naturally to me if they
lost their forward momentum when hitting the wall, but that doesn't seem to have
happened.

Minor nitpicks aside, Yeomna has an incredible art style and a lot of potential!
There's a free demo available now on Steam, and I just might have to give it a
try!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Akatori" %}

[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1442520/Akatori/)

Originally announced under the title "DeathStick," Akatori is a metroidvania
with breathtaking pixel art, combo-driven combat, and parallel dimensions.

Combat's focus on combos seems really interesting. The trailer is *super* short,
so there's not much gameplay footage to go off of. From what is shown and the
description on the Steam store page, it looks like extending combos by
launching enemies into the air will be an important part of combat, and that
sounds cool to me.

The trailer might only be 23 seconds long, but every one of those seconds is
packed with fantastic pixel art. I'm really looking forward to more trailers and
info about Akatori as development progresses!

## 8. {% include game.html game="Frontier Hunter Erzas Wheel of Fortune" %}

[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1429500/Frontier_Hunter_Erzas_Wheel_of_Fortune/)

This is actually developer IceSitruuna's second game. Their first also had
metroidvania elements, but was more of a Dead Cells "roguevania." Frontier
Hunter: Erza's Wheel of Fortune will be a regular old metroidvania though!

From what I've seen of both games, Frontier Hunter reminds me of Bloodstained:
Ritual of the Night. It has a similar 3D anime art style, and a female
protagonist. They're also both metroidvanias, but that's where the similarities
end, so they might not be that alike after all.

That reminds me, I still need to get Bloodstained...well, maybe I'll have gotten
around to that by the time Frontier Hunter: Erza's Wheel of Fortune releases!
Its release is currently planned for 2021.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Rubi The Wayward Mira" %}

[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1167110/Rubi_The_Wayward_Mira/)

I really like the pixel art and animations here. This looks like something that
WayForward would create, with vibrant art reminiscent of the Shantae series.
It's a little ironic that even the developer's name, Wayward Games, is similar.

Anyway, I really can't emphasize enough how good the pixel art looks. The
characters and enemies really *pop* on screen. It reminds me a bit of some of
the later 2D Kirby games, in a way. All the metroidvania boxes seem to be ticked
with this one too. According to the Steam store page, it has: multiple endings,
RPG mechanics, ability-based progression, and non-linear gameplay.

This is such a minor thing, but I also really like the look of the textboxes.
The little character icon in the corner is a really nice touch. I don't know, I
just really like it!

## 6. {% include game.html game="Plague Huntress" %}

If you showed the trailer to someone familiar with Castlevania: Symphony of the
Night, and told them that this was to be a new entry in the Castlevania series
developed by an indie studio partnering with Konami, they'd probably believe
you. In truth, this is *not* a Castlevania game, but it sure could have fooled
me!

Details are scarce at the moment, but from what you can see and read on [the
official game page](http://barefeetgames.com/plaguehuntress/), Plague Huntress
aims to bring in a variety of gameplay elements from classic metroidvanias of
the 90's. I'm going to think of it as a spiritual successor to Symphony of the
Night, even though that phrase usually means that one of the original creators
is involved. That's not the case here. Instead, Plague Huntress is the passion
project of lawyer-turned-coder SÃ­lvio Medeiros and his indie game studio, Bare
Feet Games.

This is the only game on this list without a page on the Steam store yet! Well,
I say "yet," but I don't know that the developer has confirmed a Steam release
at all. I kind of assume it'll come to Steam, but I guess that's no longer a
given since there are other digital distribution platforms available on PC these
days. No Steam store page probably means that Plague Huntress is a long way off
from release, but I'm perfectly happy to wait for a game that looks this
promising!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Aeterna Noctis" %}

[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1517970/Aeterna_Noctis/)

Here's a metroidvania features both challenging combat and platforming. The
trailers definitely show off the platforming challenges, with areas filled with
spikes and other hazards, requiring skilled use of various traversal abilities
to make it through alive. Combat has at least a few similarities with Hollow
Knight too, with the trailers showing off a downward attack that allows you to
pogo off of enemies' heads.

The 2D artwork here is also hand drawn, and looks pretty good. One of the bosses
in a trailer, some kind of electrical construct with whip-like appendages, looks
especially good, with really detailed animations.

While the characters, enemies, and even some environmental elements are 2D, it
seems like the majority of the world and backgrounds are 3D. This took some
getting used to watching the trailers, because the perspective changes ever so
slightly as the camera moves left to right. It's definitely grown on me though,
and I think it works.

I'm looking foward to Aeterna Noctis both for the visuals, and the plethora of
elements to potentially scratch that Hollow Knight itch!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Ender Lillies" %}

[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1369630/ENDER_LILIES_Quietus_of_the_Knights/)

I wasn't interested in this game after watching the trailers or seeing
screenshots. But after watching a gameplay video on YouTube, my interest was
piqued. Gameplay just looks *so* good! Controls and presentation seem quite
polished already. Certain aspects remind of Ori and the Blind Forest a bit, like
the font, and how certain pop-ups darken the screen and display centered text.
Aesthetically, it's *very* different from Ori, and seems a lot darker. Combat is
also much more prevalent and fleshed out than in Ori and the Blind Forest too.

I really like how the map system sort of follows the traditional grid-based
style, but also brings in a bit of innovation by having rooms connected by lines
instead of displaying them directly next to each other. Again, it's a bit like
Ori in that regard. I'm curious if this will lead to greater flexibility in the
overall map layout, since this would allow them to break the constraints of a
strict grid-based system.

It's already in Early Access on Steam, so you could start playing it already if
you wanted. Because of that, it feels a little disingenuous to include it on
this list, but its full release is still upcoming, so that's my excuse. It also
looks so good, I just *had* to include it!

## 3. {% include game.html game="The Last Faith" %}

[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1274600/The_Last_Faith/)

The Last Faith reminds me of Blasphemous *a lot*. I'm honestly surprised it's
not from the developer of Blasphemous, because it seems so similar in terms of
visuals and tone. Calling this a Blasphemous clone isn't fair though, because
there are a number of elements that give The Last Faith its own identity.

For example, you're able to use a variety of different weapon types, and you
have a grappling hook of some sort to swing around with. Maybe it's more
accurate to describe The Last Faith as Blasphemous with more Castlevania and
Super Metroid elements? I mean, the grappling hook or chain in the trailer seems
similar to Super Metroid's Grapple Beam.

Even though I've done nothing but compare The Last Faith to other games, none of
these comparisons are meant as criticisms. The Last Faith clearly takes a lot of
inspiration from other metroidvanias, but it seems like it will be a great game
in its own right, with fantastic pixel art and visceral combat.

Let me put it this way: I really enjoyed Blasphemous. It features some of the
finest pixel art I've ever seen. So for me to compare The Last Faith to
Blasphemous to closely is high praise indeed.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Gestalt Steam and Cinder" %}

[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1231990/Gestalt_Steam__Cinder/)

Gestalt: Steam & Cinder promises tight 2D platforming, exhiliarating combat, and
an engrossing, twist-laden narrative on its Steam store page. I definitely get
hints of all of that from the trailers, but what the description doesn't mention
is how great the pixel art looks! I adore good pixel art, and this is *good*
pixel art.

Another thing I enjoyed in the trailer were the RPG elements shown. Notably, how
you're able to invest points into your character's stats, and that there's a
level up system.

The cherry on top of all this is the steampunk setting. It seems really cool,
and I'm looking forward to seeing what the finished game is like!

## 1. {% include game.html game="Hollow Knight Silksong" %}

[Steam Store page](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1030300/Hollow_Knight_Silksong/)

Wow, what a surprise, the follow up to one of the most popular and well-received
indie metroidvanias of all time made the top of this list, right?

Yeah, this probably isn't surprising anyone.

A game as gorgeous and polished as Hollow Knight is a high bar to set, but the
trailers for Silksong look *very* impressive, and it might just surpass that
bar.

Hornet was such an awesome character in Hollow Knight, they couldn't have picked
a better player character for the sequel. She's faster and acrobatic than The
Knight, bouncing high off enemies' heads when attacking from the air, and
maintaining (and potentially gaining?) forward momentum at the same time. As a
result of this and the many other ways in which Hornet is unique, Silksong looks
should feel substantially different from Hollow Knight, while maintaining the
same charming visuals and challenging gameplay. What more could I possibly ask
for?

There's currently no release date, but I don't mind that, because I want Team
Cherry to take all the time they need to polish the experience.
