---
layout: post
title: Nintendo Direct 2.17.2021
author: bsinky
description: "My thoughts and personal highlights from the Februrary 2021 Nintendo Direct."
date: 2021-02-18
modified: 2021-02-18
categories: [News]
tags: [Nintendo Direct,Switch,Hype]
image:
  feature: feature-nintendo-direct.jpg
  thumb: feature-nintendo-direct-thumb.jpg
games:
- Super Smash Bros. Ultimate
- Famicom Detective Club The Missing Heir
- Famicom Detective Club The Girl Who Stands Behind
- Legend of Mana Remaster
- Neon White
- Splatoon 3
- Mario Golf Super Rush
- Worlds End Club
- The Legend of Zelda Skyward Sword HD
- Project Triangle Strategy
---

After over a year of waiting, a new, full-length Nintendo Direct finally aired
yesterday. For many, expectations were sky high, and afterward some people were
probably disappointed because of this. Personally, I think it was a good Direct.
Not fantastic, but there were definitely some significant new announcements, and
a quite a few things I'm excited for! Here are my personal highlights from the
February 17th, 2021 Nintendo Direct.

<!--more-->

## New Smash Bros. Ultimate Fighters: Pyra and Mythra

<figure class="center">
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LihaGcd1dtg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>

When the Direct opened with this announcement, I thought it was going to be 1 of
2 things: either new Xenoblade Chronicles 2 DLC, or a Xenoblade Chronicles 2
character would be heading to Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. It turned out to be
the latter!

Pretty much no matter who the characters are, I always get a little pumped when
new fighters are announced for Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, even though I haven't
played the game in a *long* time. It's a huge roster that's becoming even
*bigger*, and that's exciting!

Pyra and Mythra in Smash makes sense to me, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 has done well
on Switch, and Monolith Soft is an important partner for Nintendo. The timing of
their release is a little weird though, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 isn't exactly a
recent game. My only thought is that they are releasing Pyra and Mythra now to
bolster interest in both XC2 and Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition, or
maybe (and this is a big maybe) a new XC announcement is coming somewhat soon.

Maybe this is a good reason for me to finally open and play my copy of Xenoblade
Chronicles 2, it's just been sitting on my shelf for years now. Not because I'm
not interested in it, just more that I have so many other games to play.

## {% include game.html game="Famicom Detective Club The Missing Heir and The Girl Who Stands Behind" video="0Qw_6v9xN7s" %}

Here's a series I had never heard of it before, and most of the non-Japanese
audience watching the Direct probably hadn't either.

These are 2 remakes of games in the Famicom Detective Club series. They
originally released for Famicom (go figure) in 1988 and 1989. These remakes mark
the first time the series will be localized internationally, and that's exciting
enough to warrant an inclusion in this post! On top of that, the animation looks
quite good too. Also, I'm definitely curious about murder mystery adventures
games like these after playing Danganronpa, though I realize the 2 series likely
*very little* in common when it comes to tone and overall atmosphere.

## {% include game.html game="Legend of Mana Remaster" video="NWmzLz605e0" %}

I'm not very familiar with the Mana series, having only played Children of Mana
on the DS (though I did enjoy that one as a kid). As such, I had to look up what
console Legend of Mana originally released on, and learned it for the PS1.

So, this is a remastered port of the PS1's Legend of Mana for modern platforms,
including Switch, PS4, and PC via Steam. It looks intriguing enough, but I think
if I'm going to play another game in the Mana series it should probably be
Secret of Mana. Still, the 2D spritework and background art here got my
attention, and I'll keep an eye on this one after it launches, watching for a
nice Steam sale.

## {% include game.html game="Neon White" video="fDD17TfIn7Y" %}

Neon White is a card-based first-person action game. The mechanics seem pretty
unique, you collect cards on the map to gain attacks, and you can discard them
to gain new movement options. The minimalist visuals and character designs are
interesting. This was a pretty short segment in the Direct, so I honestly don't
know anything else about this game, but it gave me a good impression of it.

It's coming to Steam as well, and if I get it it'll probably be on Steam.

## {% include game.html game="Splatoon 3" video="GUYDXVDLmns" %}

Splatoon isn't a series I'm personally interested in, since I'm just not big on
competitive multiplayer games. But I just *had* to include it here because it
was a very interesting and unexpected announcement, and the one they closed the
Direct with. I mean, Splatoon 2 is already on Switch, did anyone expect
*another* Splatoon entry to be released in the Switch's lifetime? Well, someone
more well-versed in Splatoon and its sales numbers probably did, but that
someone definitely wasn't me. For fans of Splatoon, this is huge!

## {% include game.html game="Mario Golf Super Rush" video="aucAzFWpvMc" %}

I had seen a few people talking about wanting a new Mario Golf game with HD
grass prior to the Nintendo Direct premier. They were likely very happy about
this announcement! It's cool to see the series return in the first place, but
bringing back the Story Mode with RPG elements that hasn't been seen since the
2004's Mario Golf: Advance Tour on the GBA is *extremely* cool!

I enjoyed the little I played of Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour on GameCube, but
other than that I really haven't played any golf games. I might pick this up at
some point though, because the Story and Speed Golf modes sound pretty cool!

Also, I *love* Mario's new golf outfit. Well, all of the new golf outfits
really. It's oddly amusing and endearing seeing the denizens of the Mushroom
Kingdom in golf attire.

## {% include game.html game="Worlds End Club" video="PXHw7dwjbmI" %}

This one's from the creators of Danganronpa and Zero Escape, which definitely
piqued my interest! Rather than a visual novel, it's a side-scrolling action
game but seems to have a substantial narrative as well, and with the creators at
the helm of this one, I'm sure it's chock full of suspenseful twists and turns.

Apparently, it actually released in September 2020 as an Apple Arcade exclusive.
That's an odd platform to be exclusive to, but hopefully developer Too Kyo Games
got a nice payday from it and it helps them continue making games. I'm
definitely going to keep an eye on it when it releases on Switch!

## {% include game.html game="The Legend of Zelda Skyward Sword HD" video="X27t1VEU4d0" %}

So at the beginning of this trailer, I actually thought they were announcing
Wind Waker HD coming to Switch, and I was still pretty excited for that. But
after about 2 seconds, I realized I was wrong!

An HD remake/port of Skyward Sword, this is pretty cool because I never played
the original on Wii. It's nice to see another Zelda HD remake, now the game
isn't locked on 1 console and more people (myself included!) can experience it
for the first time. Sounds like the motion controls should work well on Switch,
possibly better than they did on Wii. They're including button only controls too
though, for those times when you can't swing your Joy-Cons around wildly, or if
you're playing on a Switch Lite.

## {% include game.html game="Project Triangle Strategy" video="fAUCRImUpis" %}

The next game in Square Enix's HD-2D series after Octopath Traveller, Project
Triangle Strategy (working title, thankfully) was the highlight of the entire
Direct for me. It looks awesome, I love the aesthetic of 2D pixel art over 3D
backgrounds! It's a strategy RPG, potentially a spiritual successor to Tactics
Ogre or Final Fantasy Tactics depending on the specifics of the gameplay, and it
looks really cool. It appears that facing direction matters, so you'll get some
sort of bonus attacking characters from behind, and you'll want to protect your
own characters' backs as well. There also appear to be the terrain effects, like
you can burning grass and then freeze it for extra damage, or something like
that? Additionally, there's a morality/alignment system of some kind that they
call "Conviction," and this will affect which characters join you, and probably
the story as well. It all sounds extremely promising!

As the cherry on top, a free demo is already available, and the developers plan
to gather feedback from people who played the demo in order to fine tune the
game. That's so cool! Hopefully the game will be every bit as good as I imagine
it could be when it releases. I definitely want to try the demo myself!
