---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Metroidvanias in my Backlog
author: bsinky
description: A new blog post
date: 2021-03-06
modified: 2021-03-06
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Backlog,Metroidvania]
image:
    feature: feature-metroidvania.jpg
    thumb: feature-metroidvania-thumb.jpg
    credit: Adrien Olichon
    creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/black-sand-dunes-2387793/
games:
- Minoria
- Strider
- "Castlevania Lords of Shadow - Mirror of Fate HD"
- Guacamelee! Super Turbo Championship Edition
- Control
- Castlevania Order of Ecclesia
- Catmaze
- The Messenger
- Axiom Verge
- Iconoclasts
---

Metroidvanias are one of my favorite types of games to play. Some have more
metroidvania-inspired elements than others, even among the Castlevania and
Metroid games that the genre is named for. But even more linear metroidvanias
like Metroid Fusion are really fun! There's just something about this kind of
game that I can't get enough of. There are plenty of them in my backlog too,
particularly on Steam! Here's just a small sample of the metroidvania games I
haven't played yet, but want to soon.

<!--more-->

It's worth noting that I could have filled half this list with the GBA and DS
Castlevania games I haven't played yet, because there are several of those. But
my Steam backlog is too massive, so in an effort to shrink it a bit, most of
these games are from Steam. ...*Most*.

Unless noted, the platform for each of these games is PC. On with the list!

## 10. {% include game.html game="Minoria" %}

Minoria is from the developer of the Momodora series, Bombservice. After I
played Momodora: Reverie Under the Moonlight, I was naturally curious about
their next game, Minoria. A few unfavorable comments on Reddit initially made me
lose interest in it, but after watching [Indeimaus's video on the
game](https://youtu.be/w5E8igzeQtY) it looked fun, and I'm back on board.

Visually, it has taken a few steps away from the 2D pixel art of the Momodora
series, mixing in some 3D elements. It still looks pretty good though,
especially the backgrounds, the developer's experience in 2D art definitely
shines through in those.

Momodora: Reverie Under the Moonlight was a short but satisfying metroidvania,
and I'm hoping Minoria is an equally good experience!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Strider" %}

A reboot of the 1989 arcade game of the same name, Strider is a side-scrolling
action platformer where you control a high-tech ninja named Strider Hiryu.

The reviews on Steam are currently Very Positive overall, and Mixed recently.
There were only 12 recent reviews at the time of writing though, so I'm not too
concerned about them. This title might be a bit lighter on metroidvania
elements, but the fast-paced, intense combat system sounds exciting, and makes
this game one I definitely want to check out.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Castlevania Lords of Shadow - Mirror of Fate HD" %}

Castlevania: Lords of Shadow - Mirror of Fate was originally a 3DS game, but a
later HD port was released for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and finally released on
Steam in 2014. The other entries in the Castlevania: Lords of Shadow sub-series
are all 3D, 3rd-person games, but this entry/spin-off is a 2D game! I mean, it
has 3D graphics, which is fine, but it plays in 2D.

I'd heard this was a decent metroidvania, and being a fan of Castlevania games
like Symphony of the Night and Aria of Sorrow, the promise of a vaguely similar
game on PC was enough for me to buy it. It was only when researching for this
post that I realized it was developed by MercurySteam, the same developer who
co-developed Metroid: Samus Returns alongside Nintendo. Knowing that, I'm
definitely more interested in this game, since MercurySteam did great work with
the Metroid series!

## 7. {% include game.html game="Guacamelee Super Turbo Championship Edition" %}

Guacamelee! is a metroidvania that draws heavily from Mexican culture and
folklore, putting players in the shoes of an agave farmer-turned-luchador as
they explore and brawl their way through the land of the living and the land of
the dead.

I've heard great things about Guacamelee. The several editions that exist of it
are a little confusing to a newcomer like me though. Like, should I play
Guacamelee! Gold Edition or Guacamelee! Super Turbo Championship Edition? In
this case, my Steam library decided for me, because I already owned Super Turbo
Championship Edition...but I don't remember where I got it, or how long it's
been there. That happens to me a lot with my Steam library.

Anyway, one Google search later and I've learned that Super Turbo Championship
Edition is the most fully-featured, definitive edition of Guacamelee 1, so it's
nice that that's the version I own and will be playing!

## 6. {% include game.html game="Control" %}

Control is a 3D, 3rd-person action-adventure game with a bunch of supernatural
and mysterious elements. You'll explore the Federal Bureau of Control, digging
through the dark secrets within, unleashing supernatural powers like
telekinesis.

Fun fact about Control on Steam: Control: Ultimate Edition is the only version
that shows up in the store when you search for it, but the Standard Edition is
available. It's some sort of "sub-package" of Control: Ultimate Edition, and
it's the version I own because of the March 2021 Humble Choice. So, I see
"Control: Ultimate Edition" in my Steam library since that's the name of the
parent game on Steam, but all I really own is the Standard Edition. ...It's
weird, let's move on.

Here's the big question: is Control a metroidvania? There's a lot of
disagreement about this online. I'll form my own opinion once I play it myself,
but from what I've read and seen, it probably leans less toward metroidvania and
more toward 3rd-person shooter. In any case though, there's definitely
metroidvania elements and influence here, and I'm excited to see what those
elements end up being, as well as experience a game that was nominated for
several Game of the Year awards in 2019 and 2020.

## 5. {% include game.html game="Castlevania Order of Ecclesia" platform="" %}

Introducing the first non-PC game on the list: Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia
for the Nintendo DS.

This game has a similar system to the Souls system in Aria of Sorrow and Dawn of
Sorrow. In Order of Ecclesia, enemies have a chance to drop Glyphs when
defeated, which give you new combat abilities. Basically the same system as the
Sorrow games, just with a different name, and I'm happy to see this feature
return.

On Metacritic, Order of Ecclesia has the same critic score as the previous entry
in the series, Portrait of Ruin, both with a score of 85. In light of that, I'll
probably try Portrait of Ruin someday as well, but Order of Ecclesia takes
priority because I've heard Portrait has several areas that are quite linear.
That's not something I particularly mind, but if Order of Ecclesia is a bit more
non-linear, then that's the one I want to play first.

## 4. {% include game.html game="Catmaze" %}

I'm *pretty* sure the developer, Redblack Spade, is just one person. I'm not
100% sure if they created everything in Catmaze alone, or if they had help with
parts. So, I can't accurately say if this game was made entirely by 1 person,
but it's an impressive feat nevertheless!

Judging by the art style, it seems like the developer of Catmaze was inspired by
the Momodora games, and that's a good thing if you ask me, because it looks
great!

Catmaze looks to be a pretty standard metroidvania, with ability upgrades,
collectibles, boss battles, and all the usual fare. Sometimes, all you really
want is a game that stays true to the metroidvania formula; a comfort food game.
Mac and cheese in video game form. I think that's what Catmaze will be, and I'm
looking forward to it!

## 3. {% include game.html game="The Messenger" %}
  
Mechanically, The Messenger seems to play a bit like the NES Ninja Gaiden games
with some extra metroidvania flair. I haven't played the Ninja Gaiden games
myself so I can't speak from personal experience, but I swear I watched a review
or something where that comparison was made.

The Messenger has a time travel mechanic where the level changes a bit and the
visuals swap from 8-bit era to 16-bit era graphics when traveling through time.
It looks really cool in the trailers, and I want to experience that mechanic
myself! The 2D spritework in both visual styles is super good. Also, the
movement seems awesome too, with tight wall-jumping mechanics and a grappling
hook that launches you through the air.

I've seen nothing but praise for The Messenger online, and that's why I have it
so high on this list. I want to see what all the hype is about!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Axiom Verge" %}

Axiom Verge is one of the essential metroidvanias. One of the ones every fan of
the genre has played, and uses to frame their experiences with metroidvanias
they play afterward. At least, that's how it always seems when I'm browsing
r/metroidvania. Obviously not every metroidvania fan has played it though: I
sure haven't, but not for lack of interest!

The only reason I haven't played Axiom Verge yet is because I only bought it on
Steam recently. A lot of metroidvanias I've played on Steam have been part of
bundles in the past, or gone on really nice sales. Axiom Verge on the other hand
tends to have modest sales, so I've put off buying it for a long time. I finally
grabbed it a few months ago though, and it's time to see what all the fuss is
about!

One last mention before moving on, Axiom Verge was also developed by just one
person: Thomas Happ. Development began in 2010, and the initial release was May
14, 2015. Making any kind of game is hard, but seeing a solo dev make a
critically acclaimed game like this one is extra impressive!

## 1. {% include game.html game="Iconoclasts" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Finished! It wasn't as much a metroidvania as I'd hoped, but it was
still quite fun. The characters, story, and pixel art are fantastic! You can
[read more of my thoughts on it here]({% post_url and story
2021-05-17-what-im-playing-no-124 %}#Iconoclasts), spoiler-free.
 
I don't know if Iconoclasts plays anything like it, but I'm strongly reminded of
Cave Story from what's shown in the trailers. The UI, entering buildings, and
the characters and dialogue, all of it reminds me a bit of Cave Story. And I
*loved* Cave Story! But besides that, the pixel art and animation in this game
is just *stunning* in the trailers and screenshots on the Steam store page. It's
so vibrant, and the animation is so fluid!

Even more impressive, this game was *also* made by just one developer, over the
course of *10 years*. Developer Joakim "Konjak" Sandberg is listed as developer,
designer, and composer on the game's Wikipedia page. The fact that Konjak
continued working on Iconoclasts and saw it through to release after such a long
development cycle is inspiring, and a real testament to what a determined solo
developer can accomplish.

Iconoclasts looks incredible, and seems to have its fair share of charm. For
those reasons, it's secured the top spot in my metroidvania backlog!

