---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Games in my Steam Backlog (2021)
author: bsinky
description: "The next top 10 games in my Steam backlog, 2021 edition!"
date: 2021-04-21
modified: 2021-08-15
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10,Steam,Backlog]
image:
    feature: feature-steam-2021.jpg
    thumb: feature-steam-2021-thumb.jpg
    credit: Free Creative Stuff
    creditlink: https://www.pexels.com/photo/blue-and-red-abstract-painting-5514994/
games:
- Lost Dimension
- Okami HD
- Tokyo Xanadu eX+
- Indivisible
- Prey
- Valkyria Chronicles 4
- Vampyr
- Digimon Story Cyber Sleuth Complete Edition
- Resident Evil HD
- Ni no Kuni Wrath of the White Witch Remastered
---

With my Steam backlog of 796 games at the time of writing, clearing 10 of them
is just a drop in the bucket. But it should be a very *fun* drop in the bucket,
because I'm really excited to finally play these games! Here are the next Top 10
Games in my Steam Backlog!
     
<!--more-->

## 10. {% include game.html game="Lost Dimension" %}

Leading a special task force armed with guns and psychic powers while trying to
hunt down the traitors amongst the group sounds pretty interesting, and that's
exactly what Lost Dimension has in store.

The traitor mechanic is what sets Lost Dimension apart from other strategy RPGs.
In order to advance to the next floor of the game's dungeon, you need to
sacrifice one of your teammate's lives. The choice is potentially made easier
with the knowledge that several of your teammates aren't really on your side,
and are actually traitors working for the enemy. Using your psychic powers,
you're supposed to read your teammates' minds in order to discover who is a
traitor and who is not. I'm not exactly sure what happens if you end up
sacrificing someone innocent by mistake, or if that's even possible, but the
premise definitely sounds interesting!

## 9. {% include game.html game="Okami HD" %}

Once upon a time, there was an internal team at Capcom known as Clover Studio.
Made up of many of the same staff that had developed Viewtiful Joe, the team was
tasked with developing new IPs for Capcom. The studio was short lived due to
their games failing to meet sales expectations from Capcom, and one of the last
games they released was an action-adventure game for PS2 called Ōkami, which
eventually received an HD remaster for PS3, PS4, Xbox One, Switch, and PC, and
that's the version we're looking at here.

Ōkami's gameplay draws inspiration from The Legend of Zelda series, which is
what put it on my radar originally. The player controls the sun goddess
Ameterasu, incarnated as a white wolf, on her journey to defeat the mythical
8-headed demon, Orochi. Along the way, you'll encounter many figures from
Japanese mythology and folklore, all the while exploring a gorgeous cel-shaded
world inspired by Japanese ink wash paintings.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Tokyo Xanadu eX Plus" %}

Tokyo Xanadu eX+ is an action RPG that tells the story of Japanese high school
student Kou Tokisaka as he comes into contact with a supernatural realm called
the Eclipse, and discovers supernatural powers of his own.

Hm, a contemporary Japanese high school setting combined with supernatural
powers. Three guesses as to how I learned about this game. ...Yeah, I read
somewhere that is was sort of like Persona, and it was immediately wishlisted.

Anyway, given that it's an *action* RPG, and that the Steam store page boasts
"40+ hours of gameplay," it's different from Persona in many ways. It's
developed by Falcom, who are primarily known for the Ys series in the action RPG
space, so they definitely have experience making great games in the genre. I'm
also looking forward to hearing more great tracks from Falcom Sound Team!

## 7. {% include game.html game="Indivisible" %}

Indivisible is a unique blend of action RPG and platformer. While exploring,
you'll be platforming in 2D, and when you encounter enemies, gameplay shifts to
a turn-based battle system where your attacks are dependent on button combos,
sort of like a fighting game. In that regard, it's said to be similar to
Valkyrie Profile, which is another game I'd like to play someday!

The characters are all hand drawn and animated, and they look fantastic. Reviews
on Steam are hit or miss about the story, but Indivisible seems worth playing
for its gameplay and visuals alone.

## 6. {% include game.html game="Prey 2017" %}

Metroidvania-elements, a tense atmosphere, stealth mechanics, and all of this
set in a Sci-fi space station? Yeah, I'm interested in that!

Prey is a first-person shooter with all the aforementioned elements, and
developer Arkane built it as a spiritual successor to System Shock. Add that to
the list of System Shock spiritual successors.

I have to admit, I'm a little nervous about playing this game. I'm not really
one for horror games or movies, and while Prey might not be a horror game, from
what I've heard of the soundtrack and seen of the enemies, it seems like it
could be pretty intense at times. The setting, story, and gameplay are really
intriguing though, so I will press onward one tiny step at a time like the
scaredy-cat I am!

## 5. {% include game.html game="Valkyria Chronicles 4" %}

Valkyria Chronicles 4 features the same gripping tactical gameplay as the first
game in series, but with improved graphics, and a new cast of characters. The
Steam store page describes the battle system as "part overhead turn-based
strategy, part real-time 3rd person shooter," and that's a perfect description
of the primary Valkyria Chronicles gameplay loop.

The setting of Valkyria Chronicles is just as striking as its water-color
painting visuals. It's basically a World War II story but in a fantasy universe,
and with superheroes on the battlefield called Valkyria. I really enjoyed the
first game, and I can't wait to go back with this 4th entry in the series!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Vampyr" %}

Set in London during the 1918 influenza pandemic, Vampyr puts you control of Dr.
Jonathan Reid. Besides trying to heal the influx of sick patients, the doctor
has another problem: he's recently been turned into a vampire. Now forced to
take lives in order to survive, it's up to the player to decide how he uses his
powers, and whose lives he takes. Your decisions will influence your community,
and London as a whole.

As a vampire game, Vampyr immediately has my interest. It's an action RPG with
strong narrative elements, and "choices matter" is a big selling point as well.
It's sort of interesting that *this* is the game DONTNOD made after the original
Life is Strange; I guess they *really* wanted to go in a new direction
thematically! In any case, Vampyr sounds like it will be right up my alley.

## 3. {% include game.html game="Digimon Story Cyber Sleuth Complete Edition" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Both games in this collection finished! There's *a lot* of RPG
goodness here between the two games. The original Cyber Sleuth is definitely the
stronger effort, but I was satisfied with Hacker's Memory as well. You can read
[more of my thoughts on Cyber Sleuth here]({% post_url
2022-02-06-what-im-playing-no-153 %}), and [more of my thoughts on Hacker's
Memory here]({% post_url 2022-03-22-what-im-playing-no-157 %}).

I was never into Digimon as a kid, it was Pokémon all the way for me. As an
adult, I don't have anything against the franchise, it just isn't something I've
ever gotten into. After hearing a lot of positive feedback for the 2 Digimon
Story Cyber Sleuth games on the Internet, and enjoying a few tracks from the OST
on YouTube, I decided it was time to try these games, and picked up the Complete
Edition on Steam.

I'm looking forward to seeing a bunch of Digimon designs that are new to me. I
only know a few from what I've seen in promotional material over the years - the
orange lizard one, the cat with green gloves, and the cactus with boxing mitts.
I definitely have a lot to learn about the Digimon themselves, but I'm looking
forward to diving into these turn-based JRPGs!

## 2. {% include game.html game="Resident Evil HD" %}

You might recall a few entries ago when I referred to myself as a scaredy-cat.
If I'm nervous about playing Prey, a game that isn't even a horror game, then
you can probably guess how apprehensive I am to start Resident Evil, a game that
helped pioneer the survival horror genre.

Yet, I've ranked this game nearly at the top of this list. That's for a few
reasons. While I've enjoyed Resident Evil 4, 5, and 6 in the past, I've yet to
experience the less action-focused roots of the series. Resident Evil 4 had some
really dread-inducing segments, and I can only imagine what the game that
started it all has in store for me.

I think I'm equally parts nervous and excited to play Resident Evil HD. I
consider it a gap in my video game experience that's been a long time coming.

## 1. {% include game.html game="Ni No Kuni Wrath of the White Witch Remastered" checkmark="" %}

**Edit:** Another RPG finished! Ni no Kuni was a super charming JRPG that
inspires an enormous sense of child-like wonder. The monster catching mechanic
is pretty simple, so I wouldn't recommend going into this expecting anything
like Pokémon, but if you're a fan of JRPGs, I'd definitely recommend this one!
You can [read more of my thoughts on it here]({% post_url
2021-08-09-what-im-playing-no-136 %}#NinoKuni:WrathoftheWhiteWitchRemastered),
spoiler-free!

This JRPG originally released for PS3, with a remaster releasing several years
later for PS4 and Windows. With animated cutscenes produced by the legendary
Studio Ghibli, it's no surprise that those look amazing. The graphics during
gameplay also look *very* good, with cel-shaded visuals that sort of make it
look like a Ghibli film translated into 3D. Combat mixes both real-time and
turn-based elements, and I'm really curious how it feels in practice.

As a JRPG, there's plenty to love here, with side quests, great characters, and
a compelling story. Ni no Kuni has received numerous accolades since its
release, and I think it's about time I give it a try!
