---
layout: post
title: Top 10 Games I Played in 2022
author: bsinky
description: "My top 10 favorite games I played in 2022."
date: 2023-01-18
modified: 2023-01-18
image:
  feature: feature-top-10-games-2022.jpg
  thumb: feature-top-10-games-2022-thumb.jpg
categories: [List]
tags: [Top 10]
games:
- Soul Hackers 2
- The Quarry
- Days Gone
- Deathloop
- AI The Somnium Files
- Horizon Zero Dawn
- Tales of Arise
- Hades
- Scarlet Nexus
- Prey 2017
---

In 2022, I finished 26 games. Or 27, depending on if you count the games in
Digimon Story Cyber Sleuth Complete Edition separately. That's my lowest count
since starting Braving the Backlog back in 2019, but I played a number of
lengthy games this year, including a few long JRPGs and open-world games. But
most importantly, I enjoyed my time spent gaming last year, and I plan to do the
same in 2023!

<!--more-->

I managed to play a few 2022 releases, 4 of them, which is actually the same
number of current year releases I played through in 2021. Speaking of 2021, some
of the releases I mentioned in last year's video that I was interested in but
hadn't picked up, I actually caught up on *this* year! Those are Deathloop,
Scarlet Nexus, and Tales of Arise, and don't worry: you'll be hearing more about
each of them later in this list.

<figure class="half center">
  <a href="https://i.imgur.com/cKf1rAG.jpg">
    <img src="https://i.imgur.com/cKf1rAGm.jpg">
    <figcaption>All 26 games I completed in 2022</figcaption>
  </a>
</figure>

As far as other 2022 releases go, there are a number of games I'm interested in
but I either haven't picked up yet or haven't started playing. There are
probably more that I'm forgetting, but these are the 2022 releases at the top of
my list to play...someday.

<figure class="half center">
  <a href="https://i.imgur.com/TthFsvx.jpg">
    <img src="https://i.imgur.com/TthFsvxm.jpg">
    <figcaption>2022 Releases I Didn't Play</figcaption>
  </a>
</figure>

Before we get started with the list, I wanted to include a few extra honorable
mentions here. These were really great games, and I struggled trying to figure
out if they should take any of the top 10 spots for while. It was a close race!

### Honorable Mentions

 - Detroit: Become Human
 - Digimon Story Cyber Sleuth Complete Edition
 - Going Under
 - Katamari Damacy Reroll
 - Murder by Numbers

<figure class="half center">
  <a href="https://i.imgur.com/iHZUpxg.jpg">
    <img src="https://i.imgur.com/iHZUpxgm.jpg">
  </a>
</figure>

## 10. {% include game.html game="Soul Hackers 2" platform="" %}

Prior to 2022, the most recent entry in Atlus's Devil Summoner series was 2009's
Devil Summoner 2: Raidou Kuzunoha vs. King Abaddon on the PS2. So, imagine the
MegaTen community's excitement when out of nowhere, Atlus puts up a website
teasing a new project that seems to be related to Devil Summoner. Weeks go by,
and eventually we get the big reveal: Soul Hackers 2.

Some people are immediately put off by it. I haven't played the first Devil
Summoner: Soul Hackers, game, but what Atlus was showing in the trailers left
the fanbase pretty divided on this new game. Still, I was excited. A new MegaTen
game from Atlus? Sign me up. I got *super* hyped for this game in the weeks
leading up to the launch, and when release day finally came I picked up my copy,
went home, and started it up. And...almost immediately, it was clear something
was a little off. The pacing in the opening exposition cutscenes was really odd,
but once the gameplay kicked in I was like, "all right, yeah, MegaTen dungeon
crawling here we come!" After finishing the game, I can say confidently: the
dungeon crawling is easily the worst part of this game.

Soul Hackers 2 is a good game, I really liked its story, characters, battle
system, and music, but its dungeons leave a lot to be desired, *especially* the
Soul Matrix. As a huge fan of Atlus's MegaTen franchise, it hurts having to put
Soul Hackers 2 so low on the list. I still had a blast playing through it, but
of the MegaTen games I've played this is definitely the most underwhelming one,
with so much missed potential.


## 9. {% include game.html game="The Quarry" platform="" %}

The Quarry was an awesome game for me and my wife to play together. We took
turns passing the controller back and forth, and seeing what wonderful, B-movie
horror nonsense these characters would get into next. We ended up playing and
watching a lot more of this game than I expected. We'd turn it on movie mode
while making and eating dinner and watch the story unfold, and it was always
interesting to see what different choices lead to.

We ended up logging something like 50 hours in The Quarry, a large chunk of
which was in movie mode so we weren't really playing, but we did play through it
several times ourselves too.

## 8. {% include game.html game="Days Gone" platform="" %}

Days Gone was the last game I finished in 2022. It was surprisingly good, and a
great way to cap off the year. It got a pretty average critical response, but
it's much more just an average game.

[I made a post on it very recently]({% post_url 2023-01-05-what-im-playing-no-176 %}),
so I don't really have anything more to say about it at this point. If you like
zombies and open world games, check out Days Gone.

## 7. {% include game.html game="Deathloop" platform="" %}

As a fan of the Dishonored series, I had to pick Deathloop up, so when I found
it for a good price for PS5, I grabbed it. I enjoyed it a lot more than I
expected. The dynamic soundtrack worked really well, and I enjoyed listening to
the level themes both when in stealth and in combat. The gameplay also hits a
lot of the same notes Dishonored does, while also bringing new ideas to the
table with the whole loop mechanic and how that affects player progression.

Granted, I played pretty much entirely in the offline single-player mode where
Julianna is controlled by the AI, so I likely had a very different experience
than a lot of people who played this one primarily or entirely online. Learning
the ins and outs of its levels and how they change over the course of the day
was a lot of fun. I tended to play it very similarly to how I played Dishonored,
which is creeping around stealthily and using Blink a lot, but it's also a lot
of fun to go loud sometimes. Although I am *way* worse at playing that way.

I enjoyed Deathloop so much that I even played a little on PC several months
after playing it on PS5, and I'll probably play more in the future too.

## 6. {% include game.html game="AI The Somnium Files" platform="" %}

AI: The Somnium Files is a rollercoaster. It has bizarre moments, suspenseful
moments, moments where it's too horny for its own good, and moments that leave
you wondering "what the heck is going on here?"

This story was a blast to play through. It's got a host of wacky characters and
a compelling serial killer mystery to solve, with a fun blend of sci-fi, anime,
and detective fiction as a backdrop. The narrative is structured similarly to
the Zero Escape series, with branching paths and some branches locked until you
play through other routes, and only when you've seen every branch of the story
will the whole thing make sense.

It's executed really well, and I'm itching to get into the 2022 sequel, AI: The
Somnium Files - Nirvana Initiative someday when the backlog allows for it.

## 5. {% include game.html game="Horizon Zero Dawn" platform="" %}

The world of Horizon Zero Dawn always seemed so interesting to me, and I'd heard
such good thing about it online that I picked up the complete edition digitally
a few years ago, and like so many other games in my backlog it sat there for a
*long* time.

The motivation I needed to finally play this game for myself was seeing my wife
play through it earlier this year. She loved this game so much that we also got
the sequel, Forbidden West, later in the year and she'd play through and enjoy
that game too. From watching some of her Zero Dawn playthrough, I finally
decided it was time to play it myself and I started my playthrough shortly after
she finished hers.

Playing this game collaboratively together was awesome. During my playthrough,
my wife would give me advice about what to do next or answer questions I had
about random things. Based on that experience alone, Zero Dawn would make this
list, but on top of the great experience we had playing it together, it's also a
really good game, and I'm looking forward to playing through Forbidden West
eventually, maybe after the DLC comes out!

## 4. {% include game.html game="Tales of Arise" platform="" %}

I've been a fan of the Tales series since Symphonia, and while I haven't played
*quite* every main entry in the series, I've played a lot of them. I haven't
bought a Tales game at launch since Zestiria though, so when Tales of Arise came
out, I didn't get it right away. But when I picked it up a little over half a
year later, it was everything I'm looking for in a Tales game: a super fun
combat system with plenty of combo potential and over-the-top attacks, a lovable
cast of characters, and a long adventure you can really sink into.

This game was JRPG comfort food for me, and by the time I was done with it I had
completed the main story, the post-game content, and gotten all the
achievements. It was my longest single playthrough of the year , with my final
time clocking in at 71 hours 24 minutes.

*(I did spend more total time playing Fire Emblem Warriors: Three Hopes, with a
total of 73 hours 11 minutes logged but that was from 2 playthroughs)*

## 3. {% include game.html game="Hades" platform="" %}

In the past, I was never very into the roguelites I'd tried. I always got a bit
discouraged when I was on a good run only for it to end and my awesome character
I'd been building up was just gone, and though there was some form of permanent
progression, it was never enough to keep me playing long enough to reach the end
of the game. Hades was different. I still had some disappointing runs, but it
doesn't make you feel bad about dying because death is part of the narrative. In
his journey to escape, Zagreus *will* die (unless you're some kind of prodigy),
and the story is written with this in mind. There's *so* much dialogue in this
game. When you get sent back to the House of Hades between runs, characters
always have something interesting to say about your prior runs, or something
related to the story or lore. Another thing I really liked about Hades is how it
gets you to try out different weapon types by offering you bonuses for picking a
different weapon for your next run. I was enticed by this pretty often, and I
think it helped me progress faster since I was getting more resources during
that run just for switching weapons, and it keeps the gameplay loop during runs
feeling fresh too.

My biggest regret is that I played Hades through PC Game Pass as part of a free
1-month deal, and now that I'm no longer subscribed to Game Pass, I don't have
access to Hades and I don't know if I can recover my save file either. I'd love
to fire up Hades again someday, but I'd much rather own it on Steam than get it
through Game Pass again. My backlog is just *too* massive to justify paying for
a subscription service.

Hades does *so* much stuff right. It's got a great art style, great characters,
*excellent* music, and really fast, satisfying combat. I really don't have
anything bad to say about it. Much like The Game Awards in 2020, I thought this
would be Game of the Year. But as you can see from its place in this list, I
ended up playing some other games that I enjoyed even more.

## 2. {% include game.html game="Scarlet Nexus" platform="" %}

Scarlet Nexus's aesthetic was always really cool. A futuristic anime action RPG
where you play as characters with psychic powers is right up my alley. But I did
*not* expect to love this game so much. The flow of the gameplay really landed
with me, especially when playing as Kasane. It looks fantastic, combos feel
great, and I love the SAS character cut-ins too, it's just so stylish.

I played through Kasane's story first and it was my favorite of the two, but I'm
glad I played through the game twice to experience Yuito's route as well. There
are a few parts of the plot where there might be some inconsistencies, but it's
such a fun ride that I didn't mind and I was more than willing to go along with
it.

The soundtrack blew me away too. Before playing it, I hadn't heard *anyone* talk
about the music in Scarlet Nexus so I wasn't expected anything special but I
*love* this OST. The fantastic English dub also endeared me to these characters
even more.


## 1. {% include game.html game="Prey 2017" platform="" %}

I had always enjoyed Arkane's Dishonored series in the past, and that was one of
the reasons I finally decided to play Prey. This game has opened my eyes to the
immersive sim genre. I always knew I liked Dishonored, but I now realize that
one of the things I liked about it was its immersive sim elements. Prey has even
more immersive sim elements, and I was blown away by the freedom this gives the
player.

There's so much potential for different character builds, and a multitude of
ways to progress through the story and areas. If you decide to spend points to
max out your Hacking skill, you'll be able to access areas and deal with robotic
enemies in very different ways than a character who doesn't have Hacking IV, and
likewise there's other skill trees like Leverage and Repair that provide similar
unique advantages at various points throughout the game.

I also really enjoyed the story of Prey, and its phenomenal use of environmental
storytelling in many, many situations. That's nothing new from Arkane though.
Their games are some of the few where I will actually read many of the in-game
notes and journals, because I feel like the writers for Arkane really breathe
extra life into the game through these little notes. Talos I was just an
*incredible* setting, and I never got tired of exploring it because there's
always some new detail to discover.

---

My favorite playthrough of 2022 was Prey, and I'm excited to try more immersive
sims sometime in the future, like the Deus Ex series and System Shock 2, and see
if they capture my attention the same way Prey did.

Thanks for reading, and I hope you have a great 2023!
